---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Deploy a Hugo Website with Pulumi"
title: "PulumiVision - Deploy a Hugo Website with Pulumi"
meta_desc: |
    Join Matty Stratton for some livecoding as he takes his existing website (built using the Hugo static site generator) and uses Pulumi to create aut...
url_slug: pulumivision-deploy-hugo-website-pulumi
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Deploy a Hugo Website with Pulumi"
  description: |
    Join Matty Stratton for some livecoding as he takes his existing website (built using the Hugo static site generator) and uses Pulumi to create automated deployments. This will be a live session where things could go horribly wrong, but will be fun regardless!
  sortable_date: 2022-02-18T09:04:31Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/DKkq-jX-3zA
transcript: |
    OK. Um We're gonna get started with uh today's Pulumi Vision, which nobody's on the stream yet, but that's OK. But you might be watching this later. And, uh, so for the moment, I'm gonna take a minute and kind of get myself a little organized here. Um Let's see, uh for those of you anyway, so I should be talking while I'm doing things. What I was doing here is just uh cloning down websites. So what I am doing, um who's here? I bet you it's Engine height engine. Um So a couple little bits of background on what we're trying to accomplish. Um So if we go take a look here, um I'm gonna show you the website that I'm working with. So if I go ahead and I say share a chrome tab, OK. So this uh is a very elaborate uh Hugo website. So this is the source code for matt Stratton dot com, um, which I haven't really done much with in a while, but this is what it is. This is basically where my blog is. Um And as you can see, I haven't written a blog in a while, but uh this is a Hugo. It's using Hugo's uh the static site generator. Now, currently, what I do with my website is uh it all builds, like when I, when I merge to Maine, it pushes it to net. That's where it's hosted and everything, which is fine and cool. But I thought it might be kind of fun to sit and maybe it's sort of building our own net. I don't know, like saying, like, let's figure out like, how I can build my website with Hugo using Pulumi and then push those files up, you know, to S3 or Blob sort. I haven't quite decided where it's gonna go yet. We're gonna see how we go and then eventually I was thinking it might be fun. I don't know if we'll get to it today to start experimenting with how we could do uh different environments. Like, maybe I want to have a pre prod on a certain branch or something like that. So, I don't know, we're gonna sort of see how it goes. Um What I, so if we kind of think through the problem set. So if you're not familiar, so Hugo is a static site generator like um 11 D or, you know, uh or um uh what's the one Gatsby and stuff. So, you know, you write these files, you know, and these marked down files amongst other things and then when you run Hugo, it goes and it, you know, creates uh html out of them. Now there is a very large amount of content because this website, uh the blog covered literal decades, you know, started with a live journal back, I think in 2001. And then over time these posts, all they got into wordpress and then they made it into you go. So there's a ton of stuff. So we're gonna see how well this all works. But so there's a couple different things I was thinking about how to kind of approach this. I was thinking one thing that I might want to do is so Pulumi has a command resource, right? Uh By the way, if, if you're joining and you don't know what Plume is, we're infrastructure software. So we're gonna write a program using a general purpose programming language. In this case, I think today I'm gonna use typescript to do it. So I'm gonna write a typescript program that's gonna do all my infrastructure stuff. So Pulumi does have a command uh resource where I could just run a command as part of my Plume program. So I could run the Hugo command that does the build. But I was kind of thinking I was like, well, I don't know if that's super great because yes, I have Hugo installed on my laptop where I might run my Pulumi program. But if I wanna later put this into my, into a github action or something like that, I don't necessarily know that I have Hugo. So I was like, oh we could do some stuff with uh Docker. So we're gonna kind of go and maybe, you know, we'll sort of see the order in which of, of things that make sense. So the first thing that I did um it like just clone down my, my branch or my, my repo um I'm gonna go ahead and kind of open this up and we're gonna start building from that. So let me go ahead and sure. Um you know, I always do this where I was, I thought I was sharing my screen and showing you my repo. By the way, if you wanna look at the repo, I'll put it in the, that in the chat here. It's just that is the um the Hugo site that I thought I was showing you, but I wasn't, but that's OK. It's cool. We're gonna go ahead and do some coding now. So if we go into VS code here, get ourselves a terminal, don't worry, we're gonna make this all very readable for you in just one second. Let's go to my uh to the thing so I can see how big I'm making things that should be pretty readable. Let's do this. Cool, cool. OK. We don't actually care about the net. So uh first thing we're gonna do because this actually is uh we're gonna, we're gonna get ourselves off of Maine. We are not uh completely YOLO coding here. Right now, um What the first thing, now, what's an interesting thing is I can, uh when I write my ploy program. So pluming program is basically just a directory with a bunch of files. And I could theoretically uh throw this all in the root of my uh existing repository. Um, you know, I could create a plumy program in here and then just run it, but things could get a little messy now as it happens, you know, this is not, you know, my pluming program is in typescript. It's not gonna conflict with a package that JSON or something like that, but it seems like not a great practice. Uh For me, I mean, you do, you, it's fine. There's, but, you know, in this case, I'm like, I kind of want to keep my Infra code separate but I want it to live with my application. So, uh what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna put my Pulumi program in a directory called Infra. Now that said I can still run Pulumi from the root, but all of my code. So the first thing we need to do when we want to create ourselves a um ploy program is we need a directory and we're gonna call that directory Infra. So now I'm gonna go into my Infra directory and I'm gonna create a new Pulumi program in here. So I'm just gonna say Pulumi new type script. Now I default Pulumi is gonna want to name my project after the directory. I don't want to call my project info. Uh which is why I'm not doing the dash Y just for fyfy. I, if I did dash Y here it would not prompt me for stuff. And then I'd have a, a project called um something I don't want it to be called. So we're gonna call a new type script and now it's gonna say, what do you want to call it? Well, I don't wanna call it Infra. We want to call it Matt Stratton Web Infra, let's say, right? So this is the project for that and then description will just say Pulumi code to deploy. Maddie's silly said I almost said something else and then the stack NAV is gonna be called DEV. That's our first stack. Cool. Everything looks happy. Now what's happened though if we look? So my info is there. So if I were to go back to my main directory, I can't actually run Pulumi up inside of there. So what I need to do first is I need to move my uh bloom me Gammel just one level up. So now it's over there and then there's one other thing that I need to do. I need to tell Pulumi in my uh configuration file that my Pulumi program is somewhere different. So, oops, what's so that's main and then um let's, yeah, it should look like this. So this is saying the main entry point is in the Infra directory. So if, now we don't really have, you know, our, our Pulumi program doesn't really do anything. But just to prove my points, if I go back up at the root here and if I were to say a Pulumi up, it says, OK, you know which stack I wanna do, I wanna do this and Dev, and we're not gonna let it do anything. All that it would do here is just create the staff, which is fine. But this got us to our point where we feel like that's cool. Now, I can do stuff. So let's go. Um Now, the first thing, like I said, I thought I wanted to do here was um I want to use Docker to build my um Hugo website. So there's a Docker container that, that has Hugo and we should be able to run that container and it should build the site and then dump that in a directory here, you know. So like for example, uh if I just were to run the Hugo command, we'll see how good my uh build it. So what that did? This is what we're trying to accomplish, right? See how it created a folder called public. We're gonna want to then, you know, we want to build that. So we get all these files and then we're gonna write some code that will move all these files up to where we want them to go. So we want to accomplish this equivalent. Now, like I said, I could do a Pulumi command resource that would run, but that requires wherever I'm running the Pulumi program that I have, uh, Hugo installed. And I don't necessarily know that I'm going to, um, have that. What is? Oh, that's code. Ok. That's fine. Um, that's why I wanted to see that. We didn't change anything else. Ok. So we're gonna start and the first thing we need to do is we need to get ourselves our, uh Docker provider. So we're gonna do NPF but bye anybody know what's gonna be the problem if I try to do this right now. Remember I am currently in the root of my application, not infra. So if I were to do an N PM install, it's gonna install it in the root. So we do ask me how I know. So we do an N PM install of Pulumi Docker. Very exciting. So now if we were to take a look inside our info, we'll see that we now have Pulumi Docker. Cool. Ok. Well, we want to use it so we want to import oops as darker from gloomy Docker. Cool. And, um, I'm gonna dump in a link here in a second of what we're gonna be looking at is the Docker provider on the, um, uh Pulumi registry. So take a look at that if you go to Pulumi dot com slash registry packages, Docker, uh, this is gonna be our thing. So we've got ourselves um also by any time, also in the chat, like if I ever forget to share something like you're like Maddie, you think your screen is being shared but it's not, you know, just let me know. All right, cool. So we import stars, you know. So we've got that in there and we wanna be able to get the image that we were gonna use. So we're gonna say uh image iate image is a new Docker and it's a remote image because I'm not gonna build it. We're just gonna pull it from a registry, right? And it's Hugo. And the name is, give me a second to remember. Um It is Joe Joy dot Hugo dot Latest. OK? Uh Except that, that's a string. OK? So that's saying the image and then we also that's cool. We, we, we'll get that image but we want a uh container that we're gonna run. So we're gonna say container is a new docker container. Oops. OK. And we're gonna call that one also Hugo because we're very creative and then this has a couple different arguments. So we need to know its image. I'm sorry, I'm just uh and the image is going to be um sorry, I'm having window problems. OK? There we go. This image that name because we created this image, we're gonna pull this. So we know that's the image we want to use. Um And then there's a couple of things. So when we look at the way this container works, uh is it needs a vol it needs a volume mounted. So it's expecting within the container, there will be a volume called source and that's where it's gonna pull from. And then we're sort of saying like we wanna map that to the uh actual current director. I think this is how I want to do this. I was trying to remember. It's been a while since I've built Hugo with Docker. So um we're gonna sort of see, but I think this is what I want. Um And then hosts path should be except my only concern is I don't know, this is gonna work. Exactly. Right, because I don't know if this is gonna be relative to the infra directory, but the problem is you can't pass it. Um a relative path. It needs a. Uh So we're gonna just sort of see how this works. We'll see how we do. Um We're doing it live. I promised uh that I would be yelling at things. OK? So in theory this should now run a container for us. Um and should that containers start? I believe just builds Hugo. So let's, let's kind of see. So if we do a plume up the first thing we'll see. Yes, I should have selected my stack. OK. It's gonna tell me what does it want to do. Let's just sort of check. Um OK. So see, yes, we can see this host path is not gonna be good because it's gonna look for the Infra. So we need to um manipulate that. So, um so for using OS for using process CWD, um I wonder this is where my Java script. Let's see if there's OK. Moving up a directory. OK. So you just do process CWD. OK. So it should be able to do this um at work. See how good my javascript is here. No. Ok. Uh 000, it, so it added the, so it took, let's see. Now, do we know? Yeah. Um Oh, maybe we need to do this. Let's see. I need to select my stack, so I have to. So I stopped doing that. So let's do Pulumi stack select. OK? All right. Let's go ahead and do our Pulumi up and let's see what happens. OK. We go ahead and run this. Let's see what happens when it loads this container. Um Well, something happened. Let's check Docker. You're not gonna see, but I just wanna see if that container is even running because I think what happened is I never actually did anything with the container. Um So let's see if we go back and take a look at container are arguing. We can kind of run, we give it a name. So let's see. We wanna say the command to start the container. Ok. So I think it also wants, let's see what's going on with our friend Docker. Da da, da, da da, sorry. Sharing some things on my screen is not great. Ok, I am not likely to suggest stalker to anybody if it's gonna keep yelling at me about this. Ok, let's go to the dashboard. Ok. So that container didn't actually start. Um ok. Exited. Let's see. I don't. Yeah. Um I apologize. My machine is just sort of frozen up on Docker nonsense right now. So give me a second to figure out why it's entirely possible that it's mad because it's not updated. So give me a second. Ok. So while we're thinking about this a little bit, um let's actually try to go a different direction and we talked about running the command. So if we go and we look at the Pulumi command resource, oops. OK, which is kind of a thing that's in preview. Um And I think this is OK. So I'm gonna drop this in the chat. No, I didn't, I didn't set the command on the docker. Um But I thought that that image would do its own thing. So this is the, this is the Docker can the image that we're using? Um Oops, this one? Oh jeez, I cannot, there we go. So I think, I mean, I think you're right and it is like, so we didn't run that, but I do wanna sort of poke around at the, so let's just while, while my doctor is doing its craziness here. Let's do. Uh Let's go ahead and just see if we can just have some fun with the command resource so we can leave our code as it is. That's doing the docker container. That's not doing anything. But let's go ahead and run the command. Ok. So the first thing we need to do um is we need to, you know, go ahead and install it, right? So we're gonna do, remember that's oops SNP M install Pulumi slash command. Ok? OK. So then if we go and we'll say import our ops and actually, I think we, this, in this case, we're not doing star, we're actually gonna just import because it's a local command and it's gonna be from gloomy command. So now if we go and we say this is a local command, so you go build, right? We'll just say is a new local dot command, ok? And the command we're just gonna run is just you go. Ok? And let's see. Hello? Uh the command to run on create. OK? So it's create is Hugo, that's our command. Um What does it not like implicitly has a new, any type to? There you go. All right. So that should actually run. So just out of Fonz, let's try to do our me up. Sure. Let's go ahead and run. Let's see what happens. OK. Well, that was fun. Um Why didn't it like that creating? OK. The creating failed. Uh-huh, let's try this because I was not in a directory that had. Ok. Well, that's a little bit better. Um, this is probably because Docker is not running right now. No. Ok. We are fighting with, uh, with Docker because that's a lot of fun. All right. Um, so let's do this. Let's go ahead and get rid of our darker pieces and just see if they could. Just, the command works. Yeah, it's, yeah, this is just because my doctor is in a bad, bad place right now, which means none of my fun stuff is gonna work here. Um, ok. Do, how about you quit? You just go all the way away. So there should be no response from Damon. Ok. Good. Ok. No. Oh, ok. Doctor Doctor Image is starting. Wow, I'm gonna go ahead and just wow, this is doctor is just terrible on my machine today. It just keeps freezing up. Um Yeah. Ok. We're still getting exit status 2 55. Like so it's still something about that command resource. It doesn't like um let's just you crazy here. Uh ok. So the command works when it's that. But let's see. So for some reason, but what if we do the command like this? Oh. Hm. Ok. Well, come on Docker, get your act together. Yeah, it just if I could get rid of. Ok. Ok. So at least we got rid of all that Docker stuff. Let's see if we can figure out why this command doesn't work, doesn't do anything. So let's go back and look at our, yeah, the dash F. Um So if we kind of look at this command preview, it's, I mean, I don't think this matters, but so it's new local dot command, I gave it a name. So it just says which can return is to is run a command that can return a value. Ok? Um hm Yeah, I'm trying to, the command to be executed. So it has a name, the working directory in which to run the command from. OK? I think that might be part of where this is happening. So if we do and then we do this again, that might help because we actually wanted to run. Oh, that looks promising. Hey, that did something. So it built. OK? So that's good. All right. So we have our files which all now need to get up into somewhere else. And we're gonna, I think for starters, let's do. Um We'll just sort of put this in a, in an S3 bucket. Um and, and kind of work, work from there. So if we go back and sort of say like, OK, we're gonna do couple of fun things just to get our life in order we have our project. I already have all my AWS stuff kind of set in my environment variable. So that should all be fine. Um We, uh so we need to just give ourselves, let's see. We're gonna start with uh let's go back here, let's do N PM install Halloumi slash Aws. Ok. So a couple, you know, we start with kind of our own stuff. So let's import star from, as a, from that slash Aws. Ok, cool. So we did that. Um Let's go ahead and fuck it. Buckets. No buckets. No. Oh, that's right. New Aws excited. Hey, and we're gonna, we don't even really care about that. Ok, good enough. Um We need to do a few things here. Um, we want to, um, go ahead and we're gonna use like the file asset to sort of upload all these files and this is where it's gonna get a little bit tricky compared to some things we might have done before because we got a lot of files to bring up. So just give me a second. I, uh had something I was looking at before. Ok. Where did I? Oh my goodness. This is what happens when I don't save it because there was like a little bit of code I already wrote for this. Um, and let's see what it's not Babylon. It's, oops. Was it this one? Sorry for the, I'm looking for my files, but what we're gonna do is the whole point of this is we want to be able to crawl through all of those, um, files and we have a whole bunch of, of, of, uh, let's see, I think it's actually ok. So this is so basically this is just uh uh bit of code. So this is recursively calls a provided directory applies, you know. Um So what we wanna do here, oops, um let say I forgot we need to have the FS in there so that we can do stuff with that. And um I think we also need to get, oh, yep. Ok. So if we've got our bucket and actually let's go ahead and make the bucket a little bit more of the way that we want it to be. Um, we're gonna go ahead and yeah, we don't need to, hey, this is gonna basically just give us kind of our thing and then what we want to do is so, so we had our crawl directory right now. What's gonna happen here is we, um, ok, path to website content. So this, we're just gonna go ahead and say is, um, we just gonna say that's a, uh, or I'm sorry, it's the slash public. Hi. And then this should go ahead and create all of our bucket objects the way that we want. Hello? Hello? Um, and let's just try to kick out this last little bit of value, which should end up giving us everything. Ok. So for fun. Now let's see what happens if we do a pull me up. Yeah. Ok. So this, so we're seeing this syncing contents. That's the, um, console log that happens and it's sure taken its time. But that's a lot of files. That's what I was concerned. That would be interesting with how many files there were to go through. Ok. Oh, yeah. So type that there. Oops. All right. Also we're running the Pulumi and they're up in the wrong place. Ok. So, so for reference, while this is going, remember what this did is it set, you know, kind of a config for this particular stack versus this, which is the overall program. Um All right. So kinda trucking away here. Um Yeah, that's syncing contents. This, that, that, that function certainly takes a while. Oh, yeah. Now this is, this is gonna take a hot second because there are lots and lots of files which I probably should have YOLO this because this is still remember just the Pulumi preview. Um Now part of the reason I wanted to do this though is a lot of times we do demos and stuff and we're like throw two files up there. Well, I don't know about you but like, you know, most websites are more than two files unless I guess spas, but even spas have lots and lots of files that have to end up in there. Um Well, this is, yeah, the uh yeah. So with this is very exciting, we can sit and just sort of watch this go. Um But because there were a lot of files because as I said, if you're just joining late, this website that we're putting up there is a blog where the post started in 2001. So it's 20 years worth of um blog posts and uh and all their supporting images and all of the various other pieces and parts that make up my website. Um So again, we're talking about some real world stuff. What I think it will be fun. You know, we've got about 15 minutes left, so we'll sort of get this working. Um But like kind of my future state of what I wanna do with this is, is also again, as you may recall, if you've joined us before and not late. Um This is requiring Hugo, like I'll, I'll have to figure out what's going on with Docker on my machine, why I can't get the Docker to go. But like we, instead of using the command here, this resource, which is what runs Hugo and builds all the files in public. Um We want it to happen from Docker so that I could put this into uh C IC. I could put this into my github actions. And uh as well what would be good is to then take it to the next level and say like, OK, maybe we have a branch that is called uh preview, right? And so you merge to that first and when we merge to there, it'll deploy to preview dot map dot com or something just to see the difference. Um Or we can also play some games where I think it, maybe it might be fun to like have it deployed because it's static uh files. So it's storage. Yeah. OK. Do you want to perform this update? Yeah, let's go ahead and just do this. Um But maybe it could deploy the blobs to a static website on Azure and also to AWS at the same time. So we have them both available for the multi cloud necessity. That is my personal website. Um Hey, at least I'm not running it all in, in Kubernetes. Um where this, you know, that's the next next level of that. So we know this is gonna take a minute. Um But so while that's happening, what the hell is going on with darker? I mean, I think what the hell is going on is my computer probably needs to be restarted. OK. So now it's actually doing some stuff. So we're creating that S3 bucket. OK. This is gonna take a, a minute um while this is going, but we should be able. Now, one thing that will be interesting is when we go to load this in a web browser may not 100% work because of this. So this is the config file for uh Hugo and it's saying the base URL needs to be matt Stratton dot com. So all the links, it's gonna create and style sheets and stuff are gonna look for this, but we can pass this as an argument to the, um, the Hugo Build command. So that's sort of one of those things where we can figure out what the domain is gonna be where we're pushing it to and, and pass those along. But yeah, there's most likely when we go to actually crack this open, it's not gonna work. It's not gonna be a beautiful looking website for two reasons. One being my website is not a beautiful looking website. Uh, but also we'll probably find some 40 fours on what it's thinking. The style sheets are actually, to be honest, it'll, well, it might be a cross site issue. It won't load the style sheet because it's gonna try to load it from mass dot com and not the, the S3 uh, uh origin. Um, but yeah, there's, I think some fun stuff we can continue to continue to do. Maybe I'll, uh, do this again. I don't, I don't know what we have on the docket for next week's Pulumi vision. Maybe we'll, we'll continue with this. Maybe we'll do something else different. But, um, yeah, I'm trying to think about, there's not really like a necessarily better way to do this particular part here. Um, because it's just like you just got to move a lot of files around. I mean, um, the argument could be made, I guess to, like, archive it and then, but I don't really know how we would wanna, like, you know, sort of inflate it inside of SS three. the, the other thing that would be, is it, yeah, we'll have to sort of see how this goes. This is, this is, I don't know about you that are watching. To me this is interesting. Um, hopefully it's slightly interesting to you. Um, let's, uh, yeah, and like, I mean, how are things going to? Oh, it is snowing. So, ok. So fun fact. Um, it was originally, they were predicting. I'm here in Chicago. They were predicting a ton of snow for today. And so last night at about seven or eight o'clock at night, the school district was like, ok, we're calling a snow day because like a couple weeks ago we had a whole bunch of snow. They didn't call a snow day number got mass, got mad. So, so, and then this morning and like up until about an hour ago, like there's been not only no snow, like all the snow we had was all melted. Like my backyard was, I mean, there was ice but it was mostly grass, but now I'm looking out the window, there is some snow. So at least we got something that's starting to happen. Um, although I understand just a little bit south of me has been getting pretty, pretty hammered, uh, with, with all the snow. Wow. This is when it actually has to upload the files strange enough versus just pretending to it. It, you know, it takes a little bit longer. I'm thinking we can blame all my kids who are home from school and are, you know, on, uh minecraft and Roblox and stuff right now taking up all of my bandwidth. That must be, that must be the problem with why. Um, this is taking as long as it's taking. Uh, yeah. And you know what, I do apologize that, that the whole doctor thing went kind of really south. Um, I don't really understand what, what happened there. Um, that was definitely a Matt's computer thing. Uh, although again, I did promise on Twitter that I would be yelling at my computer. So I guess I, I asked for that. Um, seems like we should tweet about that and say like, yeah, that actually really did happen. Actually, Twitter's been having a, having a bit of a day too, right. You know. So, um, how about, uh, the rest of you, like, uh, how, how is, how are your days going here so far? Is your day almost over? Is your day just beginning? I don't know where you are. Oh, my God, this is taking a long time. Ok. Well, uh, and again, we could be experimenting with the doctor provider if I could get doctor working in my, if doctor was, was wanting to work on my machine right now, which it so doesn't. Um, yeah, so I think next time I try this, maybe I don't do my blog. That's 20 years worth of stuff. Maybe I do. Like, actually the arrested Devops website would work just as well that's built and you go, it's got not quite as much, but, you know, we're, we're kind of in it now, right. So, uh, you know, there's, there's seven minutes left in this stream. Hopefully it'll finish uploading and we'll be able to see what actually happened, um, when, when that stuff is done. Um, so a couple things, so thinking about, right, like what we kind of saw the and there's definitely some more stuff we can do, you know, we can kind of do some stuff with getting the domain in front of it, getting, you know, if we wanted to kind of get a certain installed and all that. So there's definitely future things. Um and sort of you could make the argument and be like, well, why would I do this? And actually I'm starting to feel like what I'm showing here is a commercial for Net for why you should just put your static site on Net because it does this all for you, but that's not always the right solution, right? Like you might have this scenario where you're like, I have a static website and I want to have it in multiple places or I'll even tell you like for the case of uh so like the DEV stays website, you know, so that's actually hosted on net. It runs Hugo all this stuff and you may notice a pattern for code that I write and, you know, I mean, that the is amazing and stuff like that, but they could have it out or something could happen. So it's like you kind of want to have a backup solution of some kind. So you might say, or, you know, just maybe something will happen down the road. You wanna, you wanna have a multiple deployment target, maybe that's set up. So you can say like, OK, I'm al I'm pushing it here, but I'm also pushing it somewhere else. So that way I have that available to me and where that, where that particularly goes. This is, yeah, a lot of files. Um Is there a way, does this count? Um I didn't think there's a uh VS code doesn't have a like count the files in the directory. But uh but what we could do, right, as we can always, so let's see. It's so if we do, oops what the public, yeah, we're, we're uploading 4300 files right now. So sorry. This is the thing I should have figured out before. Um OK, let's think about like a couple of other things or maybe might be fun that are happening. Um Conferences, conferences might be starting to happen again. I don't know. Coupon. Eu did anybody submit a talk to coupon? Eu uh I think we should be hearing about that in the next month or so. Uh Talks got selected fingers crossed uh where this will kind of go. Um Yeah, this is sorry for the watching paint dry part of my life. Coding. Um The, yeah, you never, never, uh never realized you're gonna tune into a live stream to watch, uh, 4500 files being uploaded to an S3 bucket. But, you know, hey, it's been a while since I've done like this admin real work. So maybe I feel like I'm doing, I'm doing real stuff here. It's OK. It's cool. Um What are like some, I don't know, like uh real world problems around this. Like, again, we're doing a static site generator and I know that that seems like a thing you don't need to do because there'd be other ways to do it. Um But we do things like this, right? Like, like it is still a matter of like, maybe I'm using Hugo as my static site build. But again, similarly, you could be, you know, uh running a bill that gets your app where it needs to go. So what I'm trying to get to here is just sort of this overall thing about like, how does this all go together? Right? Because we talk about like in isolation a lot, like, OK, how do I do this one thing? How do I get a container pushed up there? But there's all the parts that make your website exist, like the end points and the certificates and all that. So this is sort of my ongoing series to try to get there. What I'm thinking is if I, hey Anton, uh just in, just in time to uh watch the tail end of uploading 4000 files to an S S3 bucket. Um And so it's been like forever, right? Like we haven't seen, oh my God. Um But anyway, um it should like on uh as long as the, the files, the output files don't actually change, you know, Plume's not gonna need to upload 4300 of them every time that 4200 left. That's about right. Um, so this might be a thing where we just tune in uh, next week when, when we move on to the next thing and I'll let this keep going because I, I suspect we're not gonna finish, uh, in, in, in time. Um, I, I should have counted these files before I decided to use this particular website. I knew there were a lot but I didn't think about how many there were. But, yeah, whatever, you know, sometimes you have a lot of files to upload. It can happen. Um Cool. Ok. Well, I, uh it's still, yeah, the plan. Yeah, the, the preview will still take a little bit of Time Engine, right? But it's still not just right now. The downside is, this is not how long it takes. Plume to run. This is just the, uh, I mean, half of this, I don't wanna say it's network bandwidth, but it's just file transfer across, right? Because this is now transferring a whole bunch of things and it's happening seriously. Not in parallel, right. So, um that's something to sort of think about a way to optimize that might be something I'll think about before next week. But uh that said, speaking of which if you uh have not matched the subscriber or follow button uh in Twitch or in youtube, depending upon where you're at do that. So, you know, when we're coming up next, uh, we do this every Thursday at the same time and, uh, next week, I don't know yet. I might bring on a guest. I might just keep hacking on this a little bit more, but hopefully, uh with a little less uh boringness. So, uh thanks for joining and as always, we will see you on the internet.

---
