---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Hacktoberfest and Hackathon | October 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
title: "Hacktoberfest and Hackathon | October 2022 | Monthly Cont..."
meta_desc: |
    The October 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse!
url_slug: hacktoberfest-hackathon-october-2022-monthly-contributor-community-meeting
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Hacktoberfest and Hackathon | October 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
  description: |
    The October 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse! â–º  Agenda notes:  https://github.com/pulumiverse/.github â–º Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  ðŸ“‘ Chapters: 00:00 Intro and agenda 01:06 Announcement: Hacktoberfest 04:03 Topic: Update Plans leaving experimental 05:05 Topic: Hackathon output: Timings and estimates on resource creation 05:57 Topic: Hackathon output: Shimless 10:10 Closing
  sortable_date: 2022-10-12T17:33:32Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/GaOmXstUM2o
transcript: |
    And welcome to the October Pulumi community contributor meeting monthly. I I know the words are not in the right order as normal, but that's a lot of words to get out at once. Anyway, my name is Laura Santa Maria. I am a developer advocate at Pulumi and I am your um curator for today, just making sure everything goes along smoothly. Just as a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be posted publicly up to youtube. So um if you are uncomfortable being on the video, please do mute your video, mute your sound and I will be more than happy to take any comments or questions in the chat and voice them for you. Uh And this call does fall underneath the Pulumi open source code of conduct, which basically means please do be excellent to one another and take care of one another because we are all part of the same community. Uh With that being said, um We don't have a ton to cover today uh in terms of topics unless people brought some topics with them. Um I do have one quick announcement uh due to the number of typically low quality pull requests that come to a lot of open source repos with HAC Tober Fest. Uh I know people have been asking about, can we have the HAC Tober Fest label on the repo? And the answer is that unfortunately on all of the, um at least on all of the Pulumi official repost that are open source, we do not have the ability to continue to handle all those low quality ones and still get uh all kinds of cool stuff out on the open source projects. So we don't do HAC Tober Fest in general. However, if you submit a pull request and would like it to be counted for HAC Tober Fest, we are happy to add the label. Um You just need to let us know that you would like us to do that. Uh But other wise that is the quick announcement that I had and I'm gonna mute in case people have things they want to bring up, you all are missing the like Silent Jeopardy theme song going through my head. Do do do do do do, do, do that's exactly what's going through my head right now. Um Well, yeah, I have a feeling a lot of people are prepping for coupon, reinvent whatever else is going on. So I'm sure uh a lot of the normal folks that hop onto this call or people who have thoughts and comments about contributing generally don't have the brain space right now to do that. So, um I guess one last note, uh we do have uh cloud engineering days coming up uh the first week of November. If you don't know what that is, please do uh check the description on the video or ask me in the con the, the contribute channel on Slack on the Pulumi contributor Slack. Um And I am happy to drop a link about that in there. So, if you'd like to come attend, we'd love to have you. And on that note, last call for comments, questions, topics, you'd love to talk with the rest of the community about maybe a small call out to Fraser, maybe um to see if from the engineering team, he is working on something marvelous that he can share. Oh Put on the spot, Frasier. Oh, I'm working on so many things at the moment. Um I can comment on things that are hopefully coming out soon. Um Update plans is hopefully leaving experimental. Uh We are just working out exactly how we want to do that rollout. Um The long term vision is that every update will um pretty much always have an update plan applied uh associated with it um Except for times where we can't. So if you run up skip preview, there's nothing we can do obviously. But um long term we want every up because normally up there a preview and then the actual update, we want to take those previews, save the update plans. From them and then make sure that the update that happens afterwards is constrained by that update plan to match the behavior of people who are doing explicit previews with save update plan and then passing that plan into their, their up call. Uh So we're just working out exactly how to roll that out at the moment, but that's probably coming out soon. Um Other interesting stuff coming out soon, hopefully, um is from our last hack week, we are gonna have timings on all our resource operations now, which looks really nice and we have some future plans to also put some estimates on those timings. So, rather than just kind of seeing like, you know, it's making some virtual machine and it's taken three seconds, it would be like we're making a virtual machine, it's taking three seconds. And based on all the data that we have in the Pulumi service about this resource, we expect that it will take about 40 seconds. Um That looks really nice. Um But the first bits coming very soon probably, I think next release. Um the other bit sometime later, once we work out how to store that data. Um And I think the last thing is um another hack project is uh Shimla um is the internal name for it. The more user friendly description of it is basically providers and components in every language well supported, basically. Um We want to be able to write a provider in typescript and rather than you having to package it up using something like vial to make it a plug in, uh, we would just be able to say, well, we know how to run no programs. We run no programs for normal ple programs. Um, so let's just run your provider like that. Um, and it should make debugging and like it develop iteration on these providers a lot easier because you won't have to like go through a whole build process every time you just point your examples at the source code and it will just plume me, we'll just run it. And I'm hoping to bring at least dot net. Hopefully, Java is well into alignment with the other languages in terms of components and providers so that people will be able to write both of these things in whatever language they like. Um And that would require the runtime to be available for those to execute if you were referencing them. Yes. Uh We have another idea uh which will probably come, which will have to come after this, which is um looking into things like SM or um do a pod, et cetera to do containerized or uh Wam builds of providers and components. Uh The idea being there that, you know, someone might write something in node and you know, you might be a Python shop and you're like, I'd like to use this node thing, but I really don't want to care about having to keep node up to date, but everyone's got DOCA installed. Can we just like take this node plug in and just get Pulumi to automatically wrap it in an appropriate node docker image and then run it. Um So we'll, we'll be looking at that. Great. Obviously, we have to, we have to get Shipler uh shifted first. Um But yeah, um that would probably uh be a follow up on top of this, you know, the, the, the long term sort of vision for these things is we, we really want like a really strong multi-language ecosystem, like we want everybody to be able to write in their favorite language. That's kind of a big point of ploy. But, you know, the I ac ecosystem is only so big. And if we fragmented by having sort of like a Python Pulumi ecosystem, a Java Pulumi ecosystem, all of these like communities will probably be too small to do anything interesting. Well, if we can get everybody to work together and use each other's stuff seamlessly. Um That sounds quite powerful sort of like, you know, I mean, I, I mean, I, I used to come from the dot net ecosystem and like even all of dot net is surprisingly small compared to like some of the like larger open source ecosystems like Python. Um but then most of the Python ecosystem is in machine learning, not in infrastructure. So, yeah, we, we kind of want to make sure that we can get as many people together as possible so that we get the best benefits. Super cool. Thanks for sharing that. I'm looking forward to it. Can't think of anything else that's coming out. Swish, that's already a big load fraser. Thank you for that and sorry for putting you on the spot here. That's great. It's great. They're very, really cool stuff going on. Well, all right folks with that being said, I thank you for the Prod Ringo to make sure that we didn't have a very, very short contributor meeting. Um But I'm gonna call it at that because I don't think we have a tunnel on the agenda. But anybody have any questions, comments, concerns always feel free to leave a note in the contribute channel on the Pulumi Community Slack um or post up on our youtube youtube channel uh in the comments down below and we'll make sure that we get you a response. So, on that note, thank you all for coming and uh have a lovely rest of your October.

---
