---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Contributing to the Pulumi Docs | ContribEx"
title: "Contributing to the Pulumi Docs | ContribEx"
meta_desc: |
    David is joined by Susan Evans, Pulumi's User Experience Lead & Manager, to show you how to get started contributing to the Pulumi ecosystem via ou...
url_slug: contributing-the-pulumi-docs-contribex
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Contributing to the Pulumi Docs | ContribEx"
  description: |
    David is joined by Susan Evans, Pulumi's User Experience Lead & Manager, to show you how to get started contributing to the Pulumi ecosystem via our documentation.  There's lots of ways to get involved and we can't wait to show you how.
  sortable_date: 2022-07-01T02:44:25Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/yHLGOFTSaRY
transcript: |
    Session is a contributor experience session today. Our goal is to show you how you, whoever you are can contribute to the plum ecosystem and community. We have a whole bunch of stuff on our github. Everything is open source and we welcome people to come and join us and help make infrastructure as food, fun and exciting for everybody. Today, I am joined by Susan Evans, our user experience lead and manager. Welcome to today's session. Hello, uh for anyone that is not familiar with you and hasn't seen you in any of our previous sessions. Could you just tell us a little bit about you and what you do at, please? Yeah, so I lead a user experience uh team. It's cross-disciplinary. So we have designers and engineers on it and we work across um features at Pulumi. So we work on the docks and we work on the service and we work on the cli and we work on some marketing stuff. Um We do all sorts of stuff to kind of make things better for our users and make sure that we're focusing on solving the problems that our users are facing. Um I've been at Pulumi maybe a year and a half. Um And I was at chef before. All right, thank you for sharing. Uh You know, you don't just make things easier for customers and users. I've got to say like you're the most helpful person ever at the like I just see you all the time uh answering questions and helping people out and it just always puts a smile on my face, like especially when I ask a question and I see you pop up like, yes, this is, this is going to get better. So I appreciate all the hard work that you do thing. Thanks for saying that I uh helping people is so important to me. Like I get so much value from like lifting people up and getting people the resources they need. Um I also just like, I'm really passionate about like creating environments where people can ask any questions they want and like, feel good about asking those questions and uh get like the direction and help they need. So I appreciate you saying that it means a lot to me. Yeah, you're doing great. Iii I love it. It's always, always good to see. So we're going to be helping the people that are watching this video, whether it be live or at some point in the future, uh learn to contribute to Pulumi. And today's focus is going to be on our documentation. So I believe that you've picked out a few issues across our, our Docs and registry that you think would be good to kind of show people the process um of just how they make that first contribution. So I'm going to push us over to our screen share if you want to pull up whatever you need to put up and then I'll move us over to the other scene and then we'll get started for today's session. I'm ready. Awesome. OK. So I'll start by just giving a quick overview. I think of where some of our docs are. Um So we have uh this set of docs here um which uh contains like our get started material, but also a lot of conceptual like I wanna learn about how to do this thing. Um We also have a registry which contains documentation as well. Um And each of the packages in the registry have like their own set of documentation here. Um And we also have learn, but I think I'm probably not gonna talk too much about learn, but there's also documentation type content over here and learn um each of these sessions, e each of these sections, all this stuff. I'm highlighting all you can. Uh I guess the first two things, both docs and learn, you can contribute through a repo we call Pulumi Hugo. Um And then for registry, you can contribute through uh a rebo cult registry. Um David, any other like overview questions you think I should describe. Uh I mean, maybe we could just kind of, I think you kind of covered it, but we just let me summarize it, make sure I've not missed anything. So we have the main doc link right, right there in front of us, which takes you to the kind of general Pulumi documentation, how to use Pulumi, how to think about Pulumi. I know that it covers our input or output and all the cli stuff. We then got the registry documentation which is for all of the packages and providers, right? So that's for like AWS the GCP cloud flare, everything listed on that page there. So like people should probably start in docs and then as they start to consume some of our providers and packages go into there to understand those API S and how to use them. You also mentioned that we have learn, that's where you go for more interactive fail learning sessions where there's like tasks that you follow along uh and work through it. So I can see there, we've got plume fundamentals, Pulumi abstraction, encapsulation and be and plume and so on. So those are more structured learn style components. Uh Did I summarize those? Well, yeah, and you can, you can contribute to all of these things. I think the key important part is like we welcome contributions from all of those things. Um I uh I will show you how to go about like contributing directly to like a docs page. Um I'm gonna, I pulled up a couple of issues that we can kind of fix on this call. Uh One, can I, what could you? Yeah. Um sure. Is that good? Yeah, that's better. Thank you. I can't see what you see right now, so I keep you right. Um OK, so, uh this is I am in the Pulumi Hugo Repo and I'm on issue 1686. this actually came up in a recent usability study. So someone was going through one of the get started guides and got really hung up on this step that describes the permission that you need. Um which turned out was like not a permission, you could select directly. It was like an action that you had to add to a policy that you create. So I wanna make this language better to address this thing that came up. So I'm gonna go to the page that I'm talking about and then it will make a little bit more sense. So this is a get started guide for Aws. Um And on this step right here, we say in this guide, your IM user must have the S3 create bucket. I am policy action. Granted this line is like totally accurate and correct. But for a new user to aws, this create bucket isn't actually a thing you can choose. You would have to go make your own policy and then add this action. So I actually want to just take out this line because it's super confusing and it totally sidetracked this person in the usability setting so I can click edit this page, which will take me into that repo on that file. And then I'm gonna find that line is like at the bottom of this page. Um Somewhere I can also like control F I suppose, and I'm just gonna remove this line here because it caused us a whole bunch of confusion. Um And then I'm gonna open APR for that change. So another confusing line about policy and Aws we started and it's mad at me but it's ok. Um Thanks. Yeah, and I'm gonna propose that change. It's gonna open APR for me. I am actually not gonna write something super descriptive because I can just link to this issue where I already wrote it. So I'm gonna say I'm fixing this issue. Um And uh two people had opinions about this. Uh So I'm gonna add Luke and Paul to review. I'm gonna click create pull request. All right, let's let's kind of cover what you've done there because I think this is really cool is that we started off on the documentation page. This could be someone who's watching this video now who just is already is going to documentation afterwards and they see something that they think could be explained further or something that is confusion and they can just use that edit button right on the sidebar there, which is fantastic. And that's going to take them straight to the markdown file and get help. They don't need to use the cli they don't need to include anything. They don't need to create branches. We can do it all through the web interface, which I think is just fantastic for people that are new to open source and want to get involved from there. You made the change in a fail and then at the very bottom of this page, we can put a title and description. Now you'd already had an issue and so you didn't really need to get too complex on that, but we would I guess encourage people to kind of explain in the description why they're submitting this change and what problem that is solving? Um You just create the pill request. Yeah, please add more if you, if you want. Oh, I was just gonna say, yeah, if there's not an issue, if you're, if, if there's not really an issue written up for the thing you want to contribute, we very much recommend like starting with an issue if possible. But if it's small enough, like this one is small enough that maybe you could say the new issue, just adding a description here about what you're fixing and why is super helpful? Ok. So if a change is one that you're not sure if will be welcomed or maybe it's just a lot more work that you want to be sure is going to be accepted first. You should always open our next year and start that conversation. So that makes a lot of sense. Um, I'm assuming the people that are new to our project aren't going to know who to assign these. So, like, can they just leave that empty or do we encourage them to reach out to someone, uh, via community slack or just even, like, tag me, I guess, like, is there any rules that? So actually, I, I don't think other people have per outside of the ploy org. I don't think anybody has permissions to add reviewers. Um So you don't have to worry about this step. Um And actually, I don't think you have permission to do anything in this column. So you won't have to worry about that step. I will say I watch the Pulumi Hugo and the docks and the registry goes very well. I'm super responsive. So um you could tag me or David if you wanted to. Um But um within 24 hours, we usually respond on pr s and are able to help get them merged, especially for like small fixes like this. Yeah, I guess that's, that's a good bit of advice like, you know, don't tag anyone up front, but if we miss it and we hope that we don't. But if, if we, if you go a few days and no one's commented or acknowledged your, yeah, feel free to definitely tag me. I'm Sure, Susan would be happy with that to um we do our best to help you with that change. So what's happening now? Oh sorry. Only go. I was just gonna say I'm super passionate about like a community contribution. So like any any changes at all that you would like to contribute uh please open pull requests and we'll get it in. Um You were I interrupted you. What were you about to say? I was just saying so, so, so what's happening now? We've opened the pull request, things are happening. Uh What's the, what's the process for people after this? So, um we need someone needs to review this. Um So at this point, uh I I'll need to set this aside um to see if someone will review it. It Yeah, it also generate a preview link where we can go like try this out. Um So this is like the full website in all of the docs, but we only edited that one page. So I'm gonna go to that page to see the change and make sure it did what I wanted to. So now that confusing line about here it was here um about the policy is gone. So it's good when you open APR, it's good to check out the preview link and like confirm that the change you submitted is displaying the way you expect. Um And actually I'm gonna edit that preview link to make it better for anybody reviewing So it goes directly to that page. Oh, I don't think anybody else can edit this. Maybe I shouldn't be showing things that the community can't do, but people can add your comment and say this is the page specifically that I modified and here's the link if they want it to be super helpful. So, yeah. Yep. Um But there's nothing, there's nothing else we can do right at the moment on this. It's also running this build and it will report if I made any linting mistakes or anything. Um But we can't do anything else with this one quite yet until we get a review. All right. So I will leave that there for now. I'm gonna close these tabs. Um ok. So that's that one. We also had this one about uh in another usability setting that we did recently. Um Someone was going through the steps um And they, we give instructions on how to export the AWS variables to set up your creds, but this person wanted to use an aws profile which we didn't link to or include that you could do that in the guide. Um And they actually struggled to find where that information was. That information you can actually find over in the registry. Um And so Paul actually responded to this suggesting that we just link to that registry page um from the Get Started guide. So I'm gonna open up uh pull request to do that. I actually need to go kind of look at this page because I don't totally remember it. I think it's in that same section that we were in. Um So I could actually push another commit, but I'll probably just open another pr um So here's the section where we're kind of setting these variables and we say for additional information on setting and using AD WS credentials, see AWS set up. So we already linked to the page which talks about the profile. I think um uh I guess we mentioned it there. Is that what Paul was talking about? Uh Yeah, so I think we can just link, we can do one or two things, we can link directly to this section or we can clarify the language down here that if you want to use a profile that you can go to this page, but it looks like we already have a link. Um So I'm gonna click edit this page again. Um I'm gonna go back here for a second and look at the language that's used. Um OK, maybe the title on that page could be improved, you know how it says set up multiple profiles, but maybe it should be like, you know how to use an Aws profile. Um And then, yeah, it's a little confusing. This is a little bit confusing because it's like it didn't even talk about a single profile, did it? Oh, here it did. Uh OK, so here we go. So this is, I think in this case is Yeah. OK. So I think like just linking to this page is fine. We don't have to link to a section, but I think we should clarify the language of why you would want to go to this A W setup. OK. So for additional information, um what else is on this page? That's not, so it's the config stuff and profiles that's on this page. OK. Four information about Aws profiles and the refund. Let's see. What do you think about that? Yeah, I think that's clearer. Um You know, if people are looking at those set up instructions and they see access keys and secrets and they're thinking, oh, I need to assume a role. I need to use the profile then I think that not guides them slightly better on to that A W pitch. So yeah, a welcome change. Cool. OK. So um OK. Um fix, I don't know how to say this uh uh update. It's got OK. And again, I already have an issue for this. So I'm going to say that this fixes this issue and it was fine and I'm going to ask for you from Paul since he had the suggestion and I'm gonna click create crust. OK? And then uh again, I will need to wait for his review and it should show a preview link here um in a few minutes that I can try out. Nice. Any questions about anything. I just went through. OK. No questions. I think it just, it highlights how important it is that we need to kind of be more conscious and intentional with our language. It really does help convey some of these, you know, concepts to people and it's nice to see that, you know, anyone can come along and help us improve there for sure. So it's just, yeah, written communication is so hard. I agree. OK. Um The last issue I found was for a registry um and I can actually try and to fix this one locally if we want to see a different way to contribute. Um Mchale opened this issue. He noticed that the uh the Azure registry package, the index page, some stuff was broken on it. Um So I will go to that page. So he mentioned that only YAML was showing here, but we should have a javascript example that's showing here. And then he mentioned that this link is broken. I think these things are related. Um So we will find out I am going to do this locally or I'm gonna try and do this locally. Um I guess so I already have the uh I already have the folder with all the code for registry in it, but if you don't, you can get it from here. Sorry, go ahead. I was just agreeing. Sorry, just you can get it from here and you can copy this and then you can say get clone. Um, do you use the cli? It's still good. Uh, I do not, I do not. I, I need to learn all of the things. Um, I have tried out, I haven't tried out all sorts of github things. Um, ok. Um, I don't know what branch I'm on. Ok. I'm gonna pull all the stuff because I'm not sure. The last time I used registry, um, I have changes. I don't know about that. I'm gonna just get rid of. Ok. So I'm on master. So I want um I want fix provider overview. Oh, sorry, I fix. This is a classic. Yeah. As a classic. OK. OK. So now I'm on a branch. I have this window thing is in my way. Um I'm gonna open that folder wherever it is. Um uh Let me registry. OK. So this is the Azure classic. Azure Classic. I guess the folder is called Azure. Um And this index page is where the problem is. So there is a javascript example here, but it's not showing, it's only showing the EML one and this link is broken although the format for this link looks fine. I think. So. I think this, I think we need a new line between here and I think we also need to close this shoer thing. Um I don't think you need to close the chooser just because I actually ran into that yesterday. Yeah, the chooser seems to be the magic thing that can stay open forever. Um But you're right about the black lines. Yeah, I think you're right. The only thing that, ok, so uh did I say that? Ok, so I should be able to make serve from here to be able to try it out locally. So that's going to run a local version of you go compile everything and then give us a link, we can click to actually browse the documentation. Right. Yeah. Um There's some set up stuff in the registry, read me for what you need to install. Um Here it is. So these are the pre recks and then you can run, make and sure to make sure you have everything and then make syrup. Um It's usually a bit faster than this, but it might be because I haven't done it in a while. We'll see. Yeah, I'm sure it'll pop up. Is that new line? The only problem. That's funny. I have noticed that. Yeah, the new lines are and the choosers uh need to be quite correct. Oh, we got uh uh my help. I think this might. Ok. So how do you make clean? Is that a thing? Looks like it? Ok, let's try again. Well, it looks better. Ok, cool. So run, make clean first. If you haven't done anything in a while, it's the. Ok. So I'm gonna copy this and then I'm gonna go again. It's like building the whole site. So I'm gonna go just to the um Azure Classic package. Um ok, so nothing is fixed, this is not fixed. Um I could you zoom in on your VS code a little bit, please? Yeah. Um I was just adding some random characters here to make sure it was actually like getting my changes. Um It is so that's cool. I'll remove those. Um I am gonna try closing this and just see if that helps at all. Do you have other ideas? Do you want me to zoom in? You mentioned that? Yeah, thank you. Um Yeah, let's try closing it. I mean, I have a I published something yesterday and didn't close it just because it seemed to be and it worked, didn't seem to work. Yeah, but no, I doubt myself. No, no, I don't. Who knows? Uh Is this how you close this? Does this look right? Uh Oh I think it, well. Ok. That makes the link sorry, go ahead. So we use percentages on the chooses but the chooser seems to have angle brackets and I wonder if I'm gonna look up another example because I don't know if that's right. I should know like I was in the dock yesterday and now I, I seem to be doubting everything that I've ever known. So I'm sorry, I might be causing you to doubt yourself. So, yeah, this is the Aws one does the same here. How does it? Oh, you have to say the languages I guess when you wait. No, that's not closing the chooser. Yeah. OK. So this is how it closes the chooser. I'm just gonna copy that even though I think that's what I did. Um So that fixed the link, the link is now fixed, but I still don't have a javascript example. Um Why? Yeah, I think it is the angle see on the like you go back to the broken file. Yeah, the on line 19, I think those angle brackets should be percentages. Uh Yes, character three and then third from and then same when I closed it, right. Uh No, still no javascript. So something else is on. Um, what else you're on? Um I was trying to look at how Aws does multiple languages. So no comma no comma Jesus. This one has a comma chooser. Where's the chooser? I copy this? Yeah. Um It doesn't have javascript. It has typescript. Did we get rid of javascript? Is that the problem? Um This all looks the same except for this part. Oh, wait, it's using the angle rack rack. Oh, no, but we were just trying that. OK. Um OK. Pretty sure that's exactly the same. Yeah. What happens if we remove the, does the javascript show up? Like a nothing if I Yeah, I'll remove this too. Maybe, I don't know. Yeah. So something's broken here now, I want to just like, do we, do we totally remove javascript from our docs and I just forget about it. Um Oh, you might be right. I think uh so like if I just change this to is it is, it's uh let me get back stuff. Um Do you, are you familiar enough with typescript to tell me if this is valid typescript? I am. Yes. Uh OK. Is it valid? It is valid tip script? Ok, cool. Hey, we fixed it. So uh yeah. So I think what happened is we removed javascript when we launched Java and Yaml because we like were adding languages and we were trying to reduce down. So people didn't get overwhelmed and I think we forgot about this particular example. Um Cool. OK. So I'm going to stop serving that. Um And then we only edited this one file. So I'm gonna add that um fix broken things, sorry, I'm reading that commit message. Um I'm gonna push that and it's gonna tell me to use this, gonna copy that and use that. Um So now if I go to the registry, it has my pull request here. I'm gonna say compare and fix broken things on Azure Classic overview. And again, I have an issue. Um I'm gonna say I'm fixing this and I'm gonna add Michael because he opened the issue and then I'm actually gonna add this group of front end reviewers that we have. Um And I'm gonna click, oh I'm gonna look at the changes. Um Oh I should add a note here. Um I believe you don't support Java script and start place, pull up the screen. Uh Yeah and I spelled believe wrong. OK. So uh we have a pull now we should get a preview. We should get a preview link on this one too. Actually let me go back to that other one. Uh So we did get this preview for the profiles. I'll go and mhm Look at that really quick. Hm. Yep. So now we say profiles and configuration. So that looks good and this one passed it looked like, but we're still waiting on a review. Cool. All right. So that's what I prepared to walk through. Um Any questions I can answer. No, I think that that that's great. Um I had no idea. We moved the javascript chooser. So that's good to know and that may provide opportunities for people. If you want to go search our doc for javascript choosers, you can go and pick them up for us and give us text. But hopefully that's just one that we, we kind of missed. Um I like that we covered the editing process through the get you. I, I like that we covered some local stuff too. We showed off the mate targets. Like I really feel that we've given people enough information that they can come along and make these kind of changes to our documentation. So I mean, I guess the last thing we could cover would be, you know, if people want to contribute, but they don't really know where to start and they don't want to go read every page on their documentation. Um Is there any tips you've got for how they could navigate our issues list through labels or anything like that to maybe find some easier changes to make? Do we have to first issue label or anything like that on our documentation? No, no, we should. Um Hugo actually doesn't have too many issues. We have a couple of labels you could sort on. Um Hello, I think we need to do better about labels. Um We have like an area docs label here. If you're looking specifically the thing about this repo Pulumi Hugo is this contains our dots. It also contains everything from our marketing website and then a few other things. Um So you might want to specifically look for docs things if that's what you're interested in contributing. Um We need to do better in that area. Um So that people could navigate the issues list to find something to contribute. Yeah, we, we can work on that afterwards. We can get like some, you know, society labels on these things. We can get good first issues. We can try to make this easier for people. So that's an exciting piece of work that we can take away from from this session and hopefully make it a bit easier for people that aren't sure. But of course, if people do see anything on our website and they think the, the words can be improved for everyone else. Then please submit those changes. I'm noticing this issue. Uh By the way, I'm noticing this issue that I think um oh no, this is something different. So this is basically deri disabling javascript in your browser. OK? I'm gonna stop sharing. Um And I'm gonna pull you back. Cool. Sorry. Little side turn tangent. No, that's good. That's all good. All right, I think we've, we've covered a lot and we are approaching the, the time that we kind of set aside. So I just want to say thank you for taking some time out of your day and for guiding us through these changes. I hope that it helps a lot of people and if anyone does want to ask any questions or get involved, feel free to reach out to the Pulumi Corp handle on Twitter or my own. Um And we are always active in the community's lack as well, so feel free to ask questions and we'll do our best to get you some answers and help you on your way. Uh Susan, thank you again. Oh, please don't go. We have a Docs channel and community slack too. So, um if you are interested in contributing to the docs and can't find a good first, you can post them there and I can help you find something too. Awesome. All right. Thank you very much for your time. Have a wonderful day and I'll hopefully speak to you again soon and I'm watching, we'll be back next time.

---
