---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Pulumi Native Provider Boilerplate with Guin  | PulumiVision"
title: "Pulumi Native Provider Boilerplate with Guin  |..."
meta_desc: |
    Back by popular demand! Guinevere Saenger will join Matty and  LIVE demo building a native provider using the provider boilerplate, using Go Lang o...
url_slug: pulumi-native-provider-boilerplate-guin-pulumivision
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Pulumi Native Provider Boilerplate with Guin  | PulumiVision"
  description: |
    Back by popular demand! Guinevere Saenger will join Matty and  LIVE demo building a native provider using the provider boilerplate, using Go Lang or TypeScript.
  sortable_date: 2022-06-17T10:03:39Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/uakOdyCwExU
transcript: |
    It is time for another episode of Pulumi Vision. And today we are gonna be creating uh boiler plate providers. We're gonna be using the boiler plate, Pulumi boiler plate provider thingy. Um Where to go? Yes, we're gonna write a provider. We're gonna write a native provider. That's what we're gonna do when is back, when is back. And um, so, ok, so if we think about this, so what's the difference between and I might be thinking about this myself because we're talking about creating a re a native, a native provider versus just like a component. So, um, yeah. All right. So, um, first of all, hi, everyone. Um I'm here from like complete Juni Seattle. It's Thursday afternoon. Um I, I am feeling it. It's late in the week and it's gray outside. So please bear with me and um, and uh, you know, please, uh if, if, if any of y'all are watching or having inputs or comments, please um leave them and, and like, let them know and like we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll chat and um, and see if we can all just kind of like, um, get something cool going um, back to your question about providers. So, um when you use Pulumi, most of you are gonna interact mostly with the Pulumi engine, which basically allows you to provision infrastructure using your favorite programming language. And parts of what that makes that possible is uh what we call a provider or a uh package in the more general sense, right? So, and your question about components versus providers um is a really, really good one because uh what a provider is, is it's basically its own separate mini service um that it's, it's, it's a GR PC server that um interfaces between the Pulumi engine and whichever cloud or upstream API it's representing to uh for the two to be able to talk to each other and you can then use it as you can download it as a plug-in or use it as an SDK um to work with it to create your resources. And sometimes we run into API S that don't have a Pulumi representation. And what do you do then? And this is where the provider um boiler plate approach comes in. So, uh writing a P provider from scratch is super hard. Um Pulumi providers if you're used to a Terraform are sort of like similar to the idea of like a Terraform provider. And in fact, a lot of our providers build on top of existing Terraform providers because frankly, if things are an open source, there's no need to reinvent the wheel. Um But sometimes either we can't, um you know, we don't have, you know, we don't have the correct upstream dependencies um or we have other restrictions. And that is when we write what's called a native provider. And um all that really means is that there's, we, we just build all of the logic from scratch that talks to the upstream co provider. And yeah. And so that's really hard. And so what we have done is we have provided a template repository. It's actually been up for quite a while and I just um started really going into it and trying to understand and trying to improve the instructions so that it would be a little bit easier for people who don't work at Pulumi to use it. So let's go to it. Does that, does that answer your question? I, I know that a component and a native, right? Like you would do which one? OK. Yeah. So you know what I'm gonna do is I'm going to share my screen and talk a little bit and, and kind of find a little bit uh find that architecture diagram because I think that'll make it a bit more clear. Uh Oh, that's the share screen button. Here we go. I got, I I know how to use computers. So well, there we are awesome. So let's see architecture diagram. Let's go just back to kind of the basic Pulumi architecture dim. I'm gonna blow this up like crazy. Um So here we are what you see. All right, what you see in the right here providers, that's what we're talking about when we're saying, um, when we say providers, what a component is is that's, that's sort of that, that's, that's kind of a complicated. So what a component is, it's a component is still a part of your regular Pulumi program. What a component is, is what um you, the developer create for yourself to abstract away some of your principles in your own Pulumi program. It's local, it's based on your internal logic and it's meant for you to expand and like basically develop best practices around how your own you and your team use. Pulumi what a provider is, a provider basically extends the Pulumi environment to cloud providers. It makes it possible for the engine to talk to uh outside API S and that is basically an entirely different part of the infrastructure from a component. Got it. That makes sense. Cool. So now that I have thoroughly confused everybody, let's go and see what happens with uh this boiler plate. So template repositories on github are a thing. Um I've been doing a little bit of cleanup and tried to do a step by step uh following on how to use this template. So let's just go ahead and see. Let's let's let's see how my own instructions work. Um What you see here is a actually let me make this bigger again there, you go. Yeah. Um Awesome. So what you see here is we, we call this a template repository. But one of the things that you wouldn't know by looking at it is that if you use it, you can actually, you actually get like a complete miniature pollin of provider baked into it that you can try. So I'm gonna just kind of use this template and then I'm gonna walk through the different parts of the template, but I'm gonna click this and I'm actually probably going to go ahead, actually hang on. I, oh I hate how this works, but let's open this and put it on the left so that I can follow the instructions, authoring a poly of providers. Prerequisites. Yeah, I think I have all those prerequisites. So we're gonna click use this template. I'm going to make it a Pulumi and then I'm gonna call it. Um I'll call it. Um I'm gonna call it native demo. Actually, I'm gonna follow me demo native. We have names. We want to call this. We wanna make sure that we know it's a, it's a non terraform based providers uh provider. Sorry. So this is just a demo for me around on a stream. Hi, everyone and I'm gonna make it public so that y'all can leave me nasty comments later were very nice comments. We should leave nice comments. Get up the original awkward social media platform. Yeah, that wasn't me. I think I hope that was me. Um Fabulous. So I have an initial commit. Great. I'm going to leave um the old template open because it has instructions. So from the templated repository, it says search replace XYZ with the name of your desire provider. Um So I already gave my provider a name and I called it demo native. Very cool. So what I'm gonna do actually is I'm gonna copy open up terminal, make this terminal immensely huge. And then I'm going to CD into my working path. It has Pulumi actually, there we are and then I'm gonna get the clone. Who see. All right. So what I have here is I have so much and you know what, I'm just not gonna try this, I'm gonna open this in my ID E. Well, that explains why nobody was joining us from Twitch because I did not actually put an actual real Twitch URL. I put Twitter dot TV slash Matt Stratton, which is everything wrong except the dot TV part. So are you saying that we have an audience? Um Well, hopefully, well, we had someone who said they tried and it didn't work. So hopefully that means that we might try again. Thanks Maddie. Um All right, cool. So let's see. Can I make these things? Yes. No, no, I can't. Why is this annoying? Um Right. OK. So what we have here? Why can I not make this? Why can I not make this bigger the Oh On the side, on the side, I hate this. Uh, don't worry about it. It's ok. How do I make it bigger? So, what we have here is we have our uh native provider and actually, you know what, I can just show the tree and on, on the, actually, that's actually much easier. There we go. So, um, I want to ignore the STK folder because what the STK folder holds is generated code. We're not gonna worry about it. Hey, everybody, there we go. Now we go. Hey, so uh just to catch everyone up, I just um I'm using the uh Pulumi provider boilerplate to try and build a native provider of my own. And it is currently called Pulumi demo native. It's public, you can all check it out, follow along and I'm currently just messing around with establishing what we're seeing in this template repository. Um perhaps counterintuitively. I was really confused by this when I first looked at it. Um The template provider repositories actually contain a real provider that will actually build and actually install and can actually be used. It is very, very simple. Well, wow, I can't believe I just said that in public. It is, it is not actually connected to a real cloud provider, but it shows the concepts and um and, and, and, and ideas behind how a provider works fairly well, in my opinion. Um It, it just, it, it just so happens that like every cloud provider and API works slightly differently. Sadly. Um And so after you are done with the template or like initial build, you're, you're sort of like, you know, this is when you start implementing stuff that's specific to your use case. So anyway, like I said, it's a dreary Cold Thursday in Seattle and I would absolutely love some audience energy and questions. Um If I don't make sense, please let me know. Um Cool. So on your left is the template itself and I'm following the instructions as we go. Um So from the templated repository, um it says search and replace XYZ. That's um for the purposes of this Reaper, that's our food provider. Um We're going to change that with the name of the desire provider and I name mine Pulumi demo native. Awesome. So, as I was saying, I wanna ignore the STK folder that's all generated code and we will generate it as part of this um new provider that we're making. Um I want to also ignore the deployment templates. I can show you real quick. What's in here is basically minimal instructions on how you are going to publish your finished provider later when it's ready to go onto all of the language registries, which is awesome. So, um but we're not gonna worry about that. We're just building a provider locally. Um Then we have examples uh simple which I still have on my to do list to rename to something that's slightly less. Uh I don't know. I always ii I don't wanna say simple because that's like it's uh uh towards the end of the day here, it's a, it's not a value but uh let's see, we have like the template Rio has 24 stars. I'm not sure how simple anything in here really is. Um So, you know, but we are also going to ignore that for right now. Um But that's gonna become kind of fun because it actually gives us the ability to test our provider. Then in here in the provider, we have two folders, a command and a package and then we have some go files, which is great. Um We have in the package, we have provider right here is sort of what makes this provider speak to the Pulumi engine. It's, it's basically a GR PC service and this is where it starts, that's going to not change a lot. Um And then in the provider logic, this is where we're going to spend a little bit of time. Um Then we have provider command. This is where it's a little bit interesting as well because we have two things here. The first folder is always, always, always, always confused the heck out of me because it says Pulumi and I'm like, it's going to generate the thing that makes this Pulumi. Mhm And that's actually backwards because what Pulumi does it, it uses the schema to generate your language. Sdks this is basically what later puts all your stuff into the SDK folder. You can actually tell right down here, right, go clients. We have the SC A package, we have an out there, we have a template and literally what this does, it, it will rewrite everything to our SDK. So again, for the logic of building a provider, we can kind of ignore this for now, let's go in here, but let me resource. Um This is also confusingly named, we call a provider of resource. It is sort of the top level resource um that, well, actually when we run pulling me up, right, you see that the provider is listed as the first resource on your pulling me up. We can actually see that in a minute when I run the example. So I'm gonna veer apart from the from the instructions here a little bit. I don't wanna search replace XYZ right now. I literally just want to build this provider right now. So, ok, let's go ahead and follow the instructions, make build install. I'm just gonna build the XYZ provider. Why not? I mean, maybe I broke it last time I pushed changes. So it's entirely possible quick. Someone tell a joke who in the audience has built a provider before. Here's a question. Why do sharks swim in salt water? Um Because because wait, so they can assault people more easily. Oh, that's good too. It's because pepper water makes them sneeze. Yeah. That's, that is adorable. Oh my gosh. Why am I getting change this here? Ok. Um Let's see. Oh, I got fascinating. I got some pipe. Oh, I know what this is. This is hilarious. Um uh This is entirely my bad. I just reread the instructions and these are still the old instructions that the Python SDK still has from the template. So what I need to do right after this is go and run this and pr that against the template reboot. Well, but this shouldn't matter because now what I can do is scroll up, I can go and take this package and go into my examples. Let's actually just sort of look at what's going on here. So what's happening here is that this uh this template builds a random number generator. Um Actually let me make my code bigger again. So I'm importing the XYZ package from filling me XYZ. Yes. Yes, I know. I still need to import that and then I'm making a new random resource. I'm giving it a length of 24 digits and then I'm gonna run pulling me up and we'll see what we get. Sound good. Sounds great. Cool. Um Pulling me out. Oh, she's a stack. Wait, why do I have a stack already? Um Oh Wait, what is interesting. Why do I have a stat? Let me actually. Hm Can you go back to right? What's in that directory? Pulumi uh uh LS just call me Well, did you do a, how did you wait? Sorry, I miss, I ran Makefield and stall. Oh, that probably does like a Pulumi and net. I mean, if it gave you the shouldn't have. This is very strange. Oh, properly deleting a stack. That's, it's just a Pulumi stack. RM. And then the stack. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do it. No, no, no. That was a question. Came up in the chat. Yeah. I know. I know. I'm just gonna remove this because I, uh, you have to remove death. Yep. Yep. I have no idea about this kind. Oh, you need to do, uh, me destroy stray. I need to yellow that. Yeah. Ah, this is so weird. Ok. Yes. Yes, please. Cool. So, because that was make install off of the, the. But yeah, I'm looking, I'm looking to see what that does. I'm looking at the Make Fi Exactly. Let's take a quick look and see what happened. Um, I, no, make, make install is all you did. But like, ok, so let's make this nice and big because make install just, oh, build is a phony, but it does Gen provider dot net. SDK. It builds all my stks and it makes Jen and Jen is literally what I talked about earlier. That's up here in the provider, command. Pulumi Jen, that's, that's running Jen. Here's the binary Pony, Gen XYZ and runs the and then provider. Let's see. Here's Jen Jan CD provider and go build, we can actually. And then, yeah, and then we're building the code Jan binary from the command path, which is Cogen right here may not go. That's all that's doing. Ignore all the red there back to the make file. So, I don't know. Maybe I was messing with stuff earlier. Oh, you know what it is? I bet. Because I was messing with it before. I have a Pulumi Yaml. That's like key to my Pulumi account. That looks exactly the same. That's, that should not happen. That should never happen. But I'm using the same provider and I bet that's what happened anyway. Let's pretend it didn't happen. And that's red. Pulling me up in his stack. I'm gonna call it demo, not dev this time. Ok. Error reading from server. It looks like the Pulumi Sck has not been installed. Let me go to my instructions. I know what this is. We are, we haven't linked, we are in link. Let's do that. Cool. And let's do you wanna install as well? I'll take a minute. But now we have our node modules and we have our yarn dot Lock and um, we have a, well, we have the package chase on earlier but um, but there's no files now. So that's cool. Yeah. So now we have downloaded all the dependencies and then we're gonna go, um, fill me up and it just goes straight to pulling me up. It says pulling me stack in a test but I already have a stack. So I'm gonna use my demo stack and it's gonna run create. And you notice here that under type um we basically have the name, we have the name of our stack. So this is, this is the stack is a resource in and of itself. And then we have the random resource and then we can create that. All right. Let's do it. Why not? Right? And now I have, if you count, I have 24 characters of a random string. Great, cool. I mean, I could just do a random string generator but let's dive into why this is working and how this is working. Um Yeah, up here and what I'd like to do is I'm going to look at make this a little bit smaller again. No, come on, give me it there. That's perfect. So what I'm gonna do is I'm going into my provider, package provider provider dot go code. Oh, look at that. Mhm. And actually no, hang on. Sorry. I think I'm just going to rename this and talk about what happens when we run the search replace. Um I hate the fact that we do a search replace and I hate the fact for two reasons. Number one, it's never a straight mapping for search replace. So uh plans for the future include writing a little util script for that. Um And then um but anyway, let's do it. So I remember we went through this when, when Lee was on a while ago and we did like a multi-language component with, with the boiler like a component. What? Yeah, multi-language component was a very similar scenario with the search and replace of XYZ. Yes. So I'm gonna just, I'm gonna brutally abuse my editor and do replace bias. I'm gonna search for XYZ and I would like to replace it with a demo native I think because that will be the name of my package. Um The Pulumi part is just I have to do this because they make me because I work here. Um You don't have to do any of this. You can name it whatever you like. And in fact, I have a seeking suspicion that it's actually easier for you if you don't have a dash in your package. No, probably uh probably be a little easier, do what you want, but I'm gonna do this and I'm just going to open it and find windows so that we can go ahead and actually see what's being replaced here, like digital Underground set, do what you like, it starts in the make file and the first one seems super innocuous. Come on, come on here. Uh So I'm going to go ahead and replace that one Pulumi demon native resource provider package, demon native project, Pulumi demon native. Perfect it already. You can already see that having things named Pulumi is important. Um There we go. So I'm gonna hit replace on a bunch more a node module name, a new get package name. Actually hold up. That needs to be capitalized. Still, doesn't it? Um Yeah, you sure. Um So, well, that's, that's a note I can take to meet, take, take for myself. All right. Did I just miss the, the rest of the make file? Um Where's my right? Read me. OK. So then we have some read me replacements. I'm gonna skip that. Uh gonna replace that demo native. Oh Demo, native native. Oh The said is gonna have some real fun place. Can you Gwen? Can you em in the? I don't know. It's, I'll try. Yeah. No, that's way better. Ok. Yeah. Right here. Where did that go? Document? All right. I'm gonna look in the read me XYZ. Are there any left? Yes. Let's replace that because there was no dash the and type demo native. So we're just gonna call this one the demo provider because the code doesn't like the dash. Awesome. Some more, some more. OK. Demo. That's right. The resource demo, demo, demo, resource demo. All right, cool. So now I have to rename even more things. Great. I think I have renamed most of the important things. But what I need to do here is I need to rename this one to demo in the command. You name factor, rename Pulumi Jen demo. I see that this is already trying to go parts and then the version and then me native resource refactor name, source demo. And the reason I leave off native here is because oops, can I not? Yes. Do the factor. Just do the thing. Cancel her. Go away. My editor is trying to be too smart. Let's not do that. Let's just do this because ok, so basically what I'm doing here is I'm changing the file names so that they will build a provider that has my name on it. That has my uh my magical demo API that will connect uh your, that will connect the demo API to the Pulumi engine. So right here. Do we have some XYZ? No, we don't. Fabulous job provider name. Let's call it demo. Let me demo me mo native. So eight and then we have a schema. We need to change the name of the schema. The name is demo. Do we wanna call it demo or demo? I don't know actually. So let's talk about the schema here is what makes a provider a provider. This little piece of Jason is what allows us to generate the stks so that we can talk, we can, we can write code instead of configuration files. Um This is the one configuration to rule them all. And this is basically where all the magic happens. And as with all magic, you know, it's not really magic, it's just a whole bunch of blood, sweat and tears. Let's go ahead and name this demo. Index random. I'm going to leave the implementation details as they are right now as a random generator. Uh because really all I want to make sure is that I have my basic rename, my basic like this is what I want to use um that, that compiles and builds so import based Puff native. I'm going to probably run into some issues here. SDK go demo. They help. That's the possibly we'll see demo. Is there any XYZ here? Nope, let's find out what happens. Let's do another global search for XYZ. Fascinating sign the no templates its fine provider. One result go dot mod. Interesting. Uh-huh. And then I need to do a whole bunch of renaming. All right, Pulumi Emma native writer and then right here we want, there we go. So here we do a fine replace. We want to replace that XYZ with. Can I hit replace? Apparently not? Oh, because I'm already in the fine window. Let's go away and go into provider dot com. So here we have the XYZ provider which is a strict and we want to name it the demo provider and I'm going to just find and replace the sky with demo provider. It's on. All right. So we are here in a file called provider dot go and this is basically the package that provides no pun intended, sorry. Um That provides some methods for um that provides all of the GR PC methods that the Pulumi engine expects and actually we can go and look into what the Pulumi R PC kind of expect. So there we are. Can I click through this? Yeah. Provider. Make provider. Where's my? Hm. Ok. So we'll get, we'll get there once we compile it. Let's see. Is there any XYZ left this one? Oh, we can leave that. That's in the tri set. Cool. All right. X let's see what happens if I run Make Build probably gonna fail. Go get uh let's see. The internet provider and Rango Marni. Hi. Cool. Oh, I was muted. So my son just brought me a banana split as an early father's day gift. So I need to eat it before it melts. So I might turn my camera off or I might make all of you watch me eat a banana split. Pulumi. Ok. So we do expect our command binary to be called Pulumi demo native instead of Pulumi demo. So let's rename that. But let's rename that one too. Let's see if we can build. I think we all make build is doing is um just running a go build command. Oh, when I turn my camera off it takes me off of audio too. I realized. Oh, what are the toppings? Yeah, I was trying to, yeah, I was eating a banana split. I was trying to turn my camera off because I didn't want everybody to have to watch me eat a banana split. But then I did that and I feel like it took me off of that. So I was saying it's a very classic, you know, dairy queen, you know, vanilla soft serve with banana pineapple, strawberry topping. This was, this was early Father's day gift from, from my kids. Hm. Since they uh won't be here on Father's Day because they're going to camp. It looks like I successfully installed something. So that's cool. Let's look at the kid Sweet. So we renamed a bunch of files from XYZ to be named demo native. Then we modified the make file, the read me and the go dot mod the go code itself. Um And then we regenerated a bunch of SDKS which will include modified and deleted files plus new files. STK go demo, Python Pulumi demo. We'll worry about that in a minute. Um Cool. Wow, this is a little rough. I'm going to, I'm going to definitely improve these instructions when I get back. Um Sweet. So I should be able to actually let me see what's in my binary folder. So we have Pulumi demo native and we have Pulumi resource demo native. So I should be able to go ahead and get back into my examples folder and report as demo from Pulumi Demi native. Then I should be able to go and get a demo dot random. So let's find out, let's follow the install instructions again. Where are they yarn link? Let's let's see if I can yarn link. I'm, I'm actually not certain that I have successfully renamed everything. Well, we're gonna find out I'm on the edge of my seat. No registered package. All right. What did I do wrong? Uh Let's see. The iron and style. Oh, I didn't install it. I only ran make build. Uh I'm in the wrong folder, John. This, this might work. I can now run yarn Lake Pulumi demo. Sweet. Let's find out not Pulumi demo. Native Pulumi demo. Sweet. So there's definitely still some naming weirdness but let's find out what happens if I run Pulumi actually. What's, how do I? Hey, Maddie. Do you know how I find out what's like info about my stack? Did I remove the stack? Oh I didn't, let's let's remove that first, isn't it? Um Is it like Pulumi stack? LS? Hey, no, that just gives you um that just gives you like the output. Uh like that just shows you well, what do you want to know? You said? I want to like I want to see the output as if I had just run putting me up. Oh, you want to see the current status of Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, I think I actually have to go and delete this from the U I because I think when it'll happen if I run destroyed um It will be like, look, you're, you built a whole different provider, you can't destroy it. But let's see. Now still works. All right. Let's go and remove that then. Yeah, great. So, let's look at my Pulumi program. We have Pulumi Hamel. Yeah, I'm looking for, I'm trying to remember, like, but let's see, you can, uh, it's, um, yard lock. Actually, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna remove the node modules. Yes. I'm actually going to go ahead and run the same yarn link Pulumi demo and then yarn install, um, and this should replace all of the former XYZ things with new stuff. There we are. That's right now you Oh ah Can I find that's so cool? Ok. Unable to compile typescript. Where is it? Uh Oh OK. Sounds like I just renewed my package. Weird, sweet. But the cool thing here is that because we're building a provider, we will actually get these like really weird compile errors at like when we run Pulumi up, which is why I actually really love having an example that we know works baked into the um template because then it it kind of allows you to like figure out all of the weird provider implementation details. Um and tweak all the knobs and make sure you got all that set here. We go. No resource plug-in. Let me resource demo found in the work space. OK. What is this error? Is this another naming thing? I'm pretty sure what is? Ok. Uh-huh, I have a resource demo native. So somewhere the mapping is broken. Let's see. Oh OK. Brighter version. It's just that. Go me not go provider name. Uh-huh. Provider name is just demo. Let's name the provider demo native. Let's see what happens if I can do that and then rebuild it. Cool. All right. We registered Pulumi demo. Why did we register Pulumi demo? Oh, I should just save some of my uh um bye. And let me resource demo found in the workspace. All right. So I'm still building the wrong thing. Yeah, my demo. Um What's happening here? Yeah. Let's go. Oh Damn ha ha. Damn native. I think that's what it is. Remember how I told you all that? Like the schema is like the one ring to rule it all. And then I was like, yeah, and I think I'm just gonna call it demo instead of demo native and then the resources will be demo native as well because the first field of the research name should be the package name. Um This is where things get. All right, cool. Let's rebuild. What happens actually, before we rebuild, I'm going to now, let's just, let's just rebuild YOLO and then I'm going to actually commit and save all of this. So, what kind of keyboard do you have? Maddie? So it's uh some mechanical keyboard that I got from Devo stays Denver. Um It is a glorious, glorious, modular mechanical computer. Did I just make your day better or something? What you, you just, you just had a moment there. You're like, no because I'm, no, no, I was turning it so I could look at the bottom of it. Gotcha. Uh All right. Cool looking though. Lights up and stuff. You, oh, can I find module? But let me demo it. Perfect. That's exactly what we want here. We are. This is what I want, I think. Mhm. Keyboard nerds. Uh ok. Unable to compile. I cannot find a module. Really? Wait. What was the previous error? Oh, I didn't install the module. Oh, again, nice. I love making the same error twice, right? And how, you know, you really made it. I especially love making the same air choice in front of people. Um Sweet, cool. No errors. Look at that good job after all that. I now have a random string generator that has a different name than the ones in the template. So um cool. So we have about 10 minutes left on the stream and I thought it'd be fun to either ask questions and um I could kind of go through a little bit about what's what's sitting in provider dot go. So if I go back to my editor and I'm going to like hide away the examples, hide away all the binary, all this stuff. And I'm going to just look in my package provider provider dot go and make this a little bit bigger. So what is what you see in here? Um I don't know why this is, oh, it's just pretty and red for no reason whatsoever. Um It, it's like I, I see red things and I'm like, where, where are my errors. But I think it's just ID E she's saying a different theme today anyway. So there's a couple things right here. We have the Pulumi R PC and that is a package that lives in the Pulumi core, Rabo Pulumi Pulumi. And it holds an interface that basically requires every provider to implement these methods, attach call construct check. Config these are all names for GR PC methods now, unlike or perhaps like I, I was very, I I'm fairly new to GR PC. Um So what I didn't understand before looking at the is that like this is just the Pulumi version of R PC? These methods are defined in the Pulumi provider, uh it sorry in the Pulumi engine, not the provider. That's what we're in right now. Um And there are a number of these methods and in the read me, there is a link that basically shows you where these are somewhat documented, the documents as usual can use improvement. Um But the main things that make your things work here are uh are they, they, they, they're basically like six ba basic methods. Um There's check that basically is that it's, it's a validation. Then there's the method. This is where the logic lives where we are uh where the Pulumi engine is basically um can register whether your resource has changed or not um based on whether you're running, pulling me up with an update, um Then we have create, that's basically creating your new resource resource from scratch. In our example on right here, online, 1 64 this is where the resource implementation lives in our template. Um When you make your own provider, you can obviously put it wherever you want. But actually, it's good to make random. And you'll see at the very bottom, this resource behaves in a certain way. It takes uh an input link and it returns, it does some random number generation and then returns the string as the result. Um Let's go back to where we were. Oops. No, what am I doing here? Yeah. Um No, what there we are. And so this happens on the create call, right? That's where you want to put the logic for how your upstream resource, your provider resource will behave. Um And thankfully, a lot of providers just have well-defined API S. So you don't really need to implement every single resource over and over and over. You just need to make sure that um that we have where we're passing the results. Oh, here's the outputs that the outputs um are going to get captured by whatever comes back from your provider API uh from your cloud provider. API your upstream API. Um You can see much better, more involved examples, but this is kind of like the basic one where you can see um how it's all put together. So let's talk about the link input. If I switch really quickly to the schema dot JSON and make that a little bit bigger. You can see here that on the random resource, we have a link property of type integer and we can see that in the example as well. All right, here we're passing length as an arc and we're saying 24 if I changed this, then I would make a new random number. I don't know what the limits are. Basically, this is sort of where the template leaves you to your own devices. And it's like, all right, how do you want your resources to behave? You need to implement the behavior. Um Yeah, so I just kind of wanted to go give a quick overview these methods. I think once you see them will help you understand a lot more about um how a provider behaves, why it behaves the way it does and which methods you need um to make your particular cloud resource work. And again, I say cloud resource, that's kind of a shorthand. This could be anything that has an API or you don't even need an API, you can just like scroll down to the bottom and go ahead and write yourself a new, you know, funk make random animal if I hadn't spent so much time trying to rename things, um I probably would have, you know, uh number in, you know, how many random animals do we want? And then we return a string, you know, stuff like that. And then we would have to manually go into the schema and create a new resource called random animal. Stuff like that. So, yeah. Did we have any questions? I hope that was at least somewhat helpful. Maddie. I can't hear you. I still can't. There we go. I said it was helpful to me. So that was helpful. Well, excellent. Um I uh as, as usual, I, I would love suggestions, improvements. I, yeah, I was trying to mute. I was keeping on mute because my kids all came home and they're all running around and being rambunctious. So I was trying to keep background noise to the minimum. So, yeah, I, I don't know, I, I, I'm hoping to, you know, build a much more complicated provider in the very near future. Um You know, given that um well, probably not in a stream because it would take a really long time. Um But uh but, but yeah, if uh if you all want to take the template for a spin and report back on how it works. Um Or if any of you are like super into set and want to make like a uh a little helper script to make this replacement a little easier. That would also be dope. Um I don't know. I, I might do it. Um But, but why not? Yeah, but, but this is just kind of sort of how you get set up with, you know, a basic working provider and then you can actually use the existing example to change it up and see if it still works, if your implementation, if your methods work. Um Yeah. Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Gwen for joining. Thanks everybody who tuned in uh and don't forget to match the subscribe or follow or whatever button for whatever thing you're doing and that's how you're watching us. And once again, I can't find the window I'm looking for. There we go. So we will see you all on the internet.

---
