---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Service UI Updates | Sept 2022 | Pulumi Office Hours"
title: "Service UI Updates | Sept 2022 | Pulumi Office Hours"
meta_desc: |
    During this LIVE session of office hours, we're joined by Anita from the UX team to discuss all the latest changes to the Pulumi Service. This is a...
url_slug: service-ui-updates-sept-2022-pulumi-office-hours
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Service UI Updates | Sept 2022 | Pulumi Office Hours"
  description: |
    During this LIVE session of office hours, we're joined by Anita from the UX team to discuss all the latest changes to the Pulumi Service. This is also a great time to join us and give your feedback and ask any questions you may have. ► Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  📑 Chapters: TBD
  sortable_date: 2022-09-17T05:05:41Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/lZi-wy7ug1Q
transcript: |
    Mhm. Hello and welcome back to Pulumi TV. I'm your host David Flanagan. And today we're gonna be taking a look at some updates to the Pulumi service as well as answering any questions that you may have at home. So don't sit there in silence. Please feel free to jump into the comment section and drop any questions you have with regards to Pulumi or the service or anything else that we're talking about today? All right, today I'm joined by my colleague, Anita Anita. How's it going? Hello, thanks for having me on. I really appreciate it. No, it's my pleasure. I'm glad that you're able to find some time to come and sit with us and talk about the service. You i and more importantly, what you do. So if you would not mind, could you take a few moments and just tell us like what you're up to and what you're involved with? Yeah, for sure. So, uh again, my name is Anita. I'm a UX designer at Pulumi and I've been here since January of this year. So, uh it's very exciting to uh have now been here like enough time to like start like seeing the impact from some of the work that I've been doing uh as you'll see a little bit later today. Um So I'm like, very excited to talk to you all about just why user experience is so important to us at Pulumi and you know, all the good that comes from it. All right. Well, for anyone who's not familiar with the term UX designer, UX developer UX brought up like there's a whole bunch of roles now in this space. Can you just kind of share what, what your mission is and what you're up to? For sure. So uh user experience, designers and user uh experience more broadly is really about representing the user and everything that we do. So when you are, you know, on a product team, uh there are certainly people who have like business goals in mind, people who have uh product goals in mind. And we want to be sort of this player who comes to the table and says, well, we wanna uh keep the users in mind. So we connect with uh users in many different ways through testing and getting their feedback. Uh And then we put forward designs that sort of integrates those learnings from talking to users and say, well, you know, we know from XY and Z that uh users need this thing or that they're struggling here. And that way we can kind of come to the table and really problem solve for them and then ultimately make a more useful product. Awesome. Uh, is that I guess it could be quite challenging? Um, I mean, I haven't, it's not something I've done personally. I do speak to users and I do try to understand their problems and what they're doing, but I think you speak to a lot more of them than I do. And I'm curious, like, do they all have the same frustrations or is like 100 users have 200 different problems? Like, how, how does that pan out it? It's a little more in the middle, I would say. So we definitely try to look for like patterns of problems that arise between, between users. Uh But certainly, like, we don't have just like one type of user who uses Pulumi, like they have people have like very different and varied needs and so they're gonna come up against like different frustrations. And so we need to make sure that we are serving these different, these different people. Um So it is very much striking this balance and saying like, hey, like, you know, this, this many people are like, really struggling with this issue. And so we need to prioritize that, but that's not to say like that this is the only issue that our our users are coming up against and kind of teasing out like what some of these like smaller problems would be. And uh you know, really just trying to make an impact there? Awesome. Well, if there's people watching just now thinking I've got feedback, like I want to help. Is there, how do we reach out to these people? Do we do something on a website or anyone can sign up as the, the email end? Does it? You know, I don't know, write you a letter to the office. Like, what is the best way for people to say? I'd love to be involved. I'd love to help out a bit more. So we have a few methods that people can get in touch uh with us at Pulumi and we, uh and we can sort of make sure everything gets routed to the right place. So I wouldn't worry too much about where you start. But uh there is a feedback form uh in the Pulumi service that you can use and that will kind of directly reach us and we can figure stuff out. Um And there is also from like the www dot Pulumi dot com uh website. There is also like a chat feature where you can reach out with any questions and things that you might have. Um And we can support you from from there as well. Um Yeah. OK. And between you and me, you don't need to tell everyone watching you read every bit of feedback, right? Awesome. All right, you mentioned something there that I'd also like to clarify for this. Um You know, you can actually use plume, it's open source software and never touch the Pulumi service. So there may be people that are watching, going the, what the, what's that, um, what is the pluming service? So, the Pulumi service, uh, is a, uh, so you can, when you go to Pulumi dot com, uh, there is a sign in feature where you can sign into this kind of separate part of Pulumi called the Pulumi service. And as you say, uh, you can, you may have avoided this uh for whatever reason. But uh if you are interested in having Halloumi sort of uh organize and manage a lot of your stacks and your projects, uh you can use the Pulumi service uh to manage all of that. Uh And we have some like cool features in there uh to uh kind of give you an overview of all of your like infrastructure operations from your dashboard uh and just kind of uh and other features depending on uh what kind of account that you have. Uh We have a lot of features just to help with uh that sort of higher level management that you might otherwise be doing on your own. Yeah, this is a conversation. I have a conference, these a lot um for anyone who's not used the plume service before I was trying to encourage them to do so. But what they don't realize is that it's free for individual developers, like, you know, you can, you don't have to worry about thinking that plume state fails to blog storage because you can just use the service and it doesn't cost you a penny. I think that's a fantastic offering for developers that want to be able to use that. Um Yeah, your individual accounts are always, always free. You don't have to uh you don't have to be part of like an organization to use the Pulumi service. So you as like your own person can literally just sign up and like have that all available to you. Yeah, we encourage you to do so. It's a great way to manage your state. I think we should show people it now. So as I always do, I've lost my mouth, but I'm finding it. So I'm gonna pull up a screen share which we have here. Well, maybe I'll just log out actually do that. Here we go. So this is Pulumi dot com and you can browse to app dot Pulumi dot com and it will take you straight to the log in page of the service if you are logged in, but we do have a log in button to the top right of the page here. Uh I always just get hypothetic um just because I don't like passwords. Uh And here we are, I'm straight on to the service. We have an overview. This is the dashboard page. Um You want to give us a, a quick run through of the, the things that you like here and any changes that were made recently, please feel free to highlight them as we go. Yeah. So uh a lot has actually changed here recently. If, if you have used the Pulumi service before this could look kind of unfamiliar to you because uh there has been like an overhaul that has happened. Um This is uh like an individual accounts view of the dashboard. So uh we're maintaining our resources for helping people get started. You can collapse all of these cards once you're done using them. Uh And then kind of start just getting into like the operational flow of things. Uh We have uh a latest stack updates card and uh that is going to list all of your most recent activity. So you can easily navigate into any projects and stacks that you've touched recently. And uh that card will also expose any operation messages that are tied to those updates when you hover on that um little notes icon. Um Yeah. So you can see exactly what update we're talking about. The details, links will take you into the more detailed view of all of those particular updates. So if you are kind of checking up on something troubleshooting something, uh you can, you know, easily get there. This is where your change log and all of your metadata configuration lives. Um And you have like quick links out to like github things that uh just things that you you might need to, to kind of do the troubleshooting that we know a lot of users are doing when they're coming into the service. And that's one of my favorite features actually, sorry, I don't mean to cut you off there. But uh you mentioned the get hub links and like I use get hub actions a lot. There's a an official plumbing, you get have action and whenever you use that action to execute your plumbing program, you get these links to like the the runner and the pill request and the branch and the certain commit and like being able to do that, I think is, is really cool as, especially as things change over time. And I'm not the only person working on it for sure. And just to like from the usability perspective, from talking with lots of people, we know that when people come into the service, like they're, they're highly like task motivated. It's like you're not just here like browsing around, it's like they have something that they're, they're trying to get done. And, you know, we want to provide as much information as possible for those people to be able to, you know, find these, the, the things that they need and that way we can get them in and out. And uh yeah, have this have a high level understanding of uh what's going on with their operations. Um Yeah, back here on uh the dashboard page something, a feature that we've also recently implemented is uh fav favorite. So we have a favorite stacks card on the dashboard and you'll also see in the left hand navigation, we also have a favorite drop down. So David, if you could click on latest stack updates a little star next to a stack that will add that stack to your favorites. And you can add favorites. Uh not just from the dashboard but from any stack page, you'll start to see those star icons. So you can essentially pin any stacks that you need to get to frequently uh and have access to them from uh this page and from the left hand navigation um that way. So wherever you are in the service, we can prioritize getting you into the most important places. But um we're also uh I can have you switch into uh a different organization from your individual account. So if you are not an individual user, you can um you'll start to see this view of the dashboard. If you're part of an organization, uh you have this additional, these additional cards at the top that are, I refer to them as the little quick stats cards. Um But this just gives you some like quick digestible information about everything that's going on uh in your operation. So how many members are part of your org, how many stacks you have, how many resources you have? And uh if there's a diff between uh this week and the last, you'll be able to see that in your total stacks and resources count. Uh And then the other thing that you get if you are part of an organization is you have this little members card just to see who is joining your organization. And if you're an admin, uh you can see the uh any pending invites and uh manage any invites that you have to. Oh, here we go. Uh You can manage those pending invites, resend or revoke uh reflect your invite. Oh my heart. Uh Yeah. So again, we really just wanted to uh provide people with like a sort of big picture of what's happening in the service that you can sort of consume very easily from the dashboard. Um What I love about this is that obviously it's a brand new overhaul and it's extremely functional. We've got all these nice little components and dashboards and stuff, but I got to say the aesthetics on it are just great as well like the use of these kind of gradients, but like they're very muted. It pleases me. It makes me very happy. Every time I come to the service dashboard, we, we love to hear that especially because a lot of so UX design isn't just about like making functional changes. Like obviously, that's something we care about immensely, but like we, we want to make changes that are also sort of like delightful to users. So like we have like these sort of like fun and happy components and you're not just coming into the service and, you know, seeing something kind of like drab that you don't really want. So we're, we hope that we're, we're kind of bringing those delights uh into your experience when you, when you hit this page. So, yeah, definitely, you know, like sometimes you can have the best, like, you know, I'm definitely a member and customer for some amazing products out there, but sometimes aesthetically, their website feels like it's built in the nineties. Like, you know, that, that feeling you get sometimes and uh you know, it can be quite disappointing because you're like, oh, this is really cool software, but that's not the case here. Like, I just think everything just looks very modern and very nice. It's very good to do. So, yeah, I, I, I'd love these changes and these cards I think are just fantastic as well. Those overviews giving me a really high level description of what's happening. Yeah, great updates to the service. Um and we have, we actually have a comment, right? I'm just rambling now, but we have a comment on the chat from then. The new is sure better than the old one. So we're really glad that the hard work that many people are putting into the service uh is working. Yeah, we, I, we really appreciate hearing that we've gotten some really lovely notes from, from people after we rolled out these changes. Uh and that, that always, like, feels very good that to, to know like, oh, ok. We, we were able to implement something that, that kind of made a difference to somebody's experience coming in here and, you know, that's, that's the most important thing to me, for sure. So that, all right. Um, have we missed it? Is there more stuff we should go over on the dashboard? Probably not. I do wanna call out, um, because it's been here on the screen this whole time and I hadn't, I haven't talked about it. The left-hand navigation is, is also something that we, we changed in this most recent set of uh in this most recent rollout. But uh we, I don't wanna, I want to be careful how I say this, the, the previous navigation uh that we had in, in the service, I think, confused some people. Um So if you uh if you could navigate to any stack, yeah, just any stack that would be fine. Um And yeah, click if you click prod or whatever that is, I think that's what it says. Yeah. So, uh if you recognize this page, um you have like a, a secondary uh navigation at the top where you're kind of uh moving between like different uh parts in this stack. Uh In our, before we implemented the left nav people were kind of getting lost in here because that, that navigation would sort of take the place of like all of the other uh navigation items. So people were having trouble like getting back to like their organization settings or like getting to their, getting back to the dashboard, let's say. Um So we wanted to, to kind of bring in this new navigation so that people could kind of find their place wherever they're at in the service. Uh So that way you can kind of be deep, deep diving in any of your stacks and not feel confused about where you are at. Uh So that was like a big, a big priority that we had that came of a lot of conversations and feedback from, from users. And uh we were, we were very excited that we were able to make that change. Yeah, I think it's one of those quality of life changes. Like I, I didn't really realize I needed that until I seen it. I was working with it and I was like, wow, this is what this just works better like, yeah, definitely. And we definitely don't want you to like, like navigation is one of those things that it, it is functional. So like it has to like, like you, you need to just be able to do it and you shouldn't be conscious of the fact that you're trying to find something. It, it should be this sort of like very intuitive like, oh this is what I need. This is where I wanna go. So, you know, we, we almost hope you didn't notice that this was like a big like, oh, like, I don't know where anything is now. Like hopefully your experience coming into this is like, oh, like now I have all of my like these options available to me. I can see where I'm at. Uh and yes, like you said, I hope that I hope that is a a big quality of life improvement for, for folks using the service. Well, definitely can is back in the the comments thing, correct. The top used to make me feel like I was getting lost. So yeah, there you go. You've got a nice lovely shiny left menu which I love and collapse more to you. Yes, it does collapse I didn't use. So if you need more screen real estate, you don't have that, you know, taking up space if you don't want it to. So exactly, it's a nice touch. All right. Uh So we've covered, you know, the, the members, the new little um cards for the update. Uh Have we, have we missed anything? What, what have we still got here? I think the so that mostly encapsulates the most recent changes that we've made. This is your um what you're hovering on now is uh your kind of organization toggle. So if you are part of multiple places, that's sort of your go to place to kind of make sure you're kind of like in the right context. And you can also create your organizations from there. So that has uh moved from its previous location. So hopefully, you didn't, uh hopefully nobody needed that and couldn't find it. We hope that uh you know, you're still able to do everything that you did in like the previous seeing. Um Our goal was definitely to preserve what we had and then make it better, make it more usable for, for folks. Um But if we also wanted to talk about like other features that are part of the service um that, you know, maybe our older users who are users who are familiar with this may already know, but like other folks may not, yeah, let's do it. Cool. So we have, where do we wanna start? Let's open, let's go back to like a stack maybe. And we can just kind of walk people through everything that you might have in there or actually, why don't we go to the all the, just the, the full stacks page? So in the left nab if you click stacks. So this is sort of like the, like the, the mega list of like all of the stacks that you might have uh just, just a couple in here. Uh So this is where we know a lot of uh people are spending their time like they're trying to like find a particular stack. Uh And so, uh that was, this is a lot of what informed like us wanting to introduce like the favorites because we wanted people to have, you know, some means of like pinning stuff that they get too often. Um But, uh this is something that we uh still want to work on, like moving forward, uh like to continue, like looking for ways to help people uh organize all of this information since there's so much of it. Uh And, uh, you know, really, uh kind of perfect, I think the, the, the exploratory process of, of of going through some of this information. Um And then we can bring, let's go into a, a stack now, big one with updates, maybe, right? Sure. Those are the challenge I did that recently. Yeah. And so this is what we looked at previously. So this is just kind of giving you all of the information about your stack that you might need uh in one place. Uh We also have the uh stack read me tag that was a recent uh feature launch from our service team um which is really cool and there's recent blog posts about that um from your activity page. You can see a timeline of all of the updates that you've ever performed related to uh the stack. And then you can click into all of those specific details. Uh This is again, like the change log and everything um that you might need relating to any of your updates. You can see the diff and the diagnostics um related to any of your stocks, you get all this information about uh the timeline. We make sure we record any configuration that's been set up any metadata that's associated with uh with the stack. And we also, this one doesn't have resources. I've destroyed it. So, oh, this is a destroyed, destroyed stack. Hold on. Let's see. Uh This one shouldn't be destroyed. Yeah. So uh here's your uh resource list and uh this is the graph view. This is something that maybe in the future we would like to, to work on. We have heard from people that this is and as you may see, just looking at this, that this isn't uh super usable. Uh But the, the list view does just give you all of the uh all of the resources that are uh associated with uh with the stack that you've created and uh this one actually doesn't have a ton of them. Oh But yeah, you have one on the, the far uh right. It will link you out to your um like the cloud provider or whatever that's associated uh with uh the resources. So if you have like something in Aws, there would be like an AWS link over there. So that will take you out to that console one at least. Yeah, this one maybe not the best example but sorry, I mean, come on, I'm trying. Yeah, I, I mostly just lots of Cooper stuff. So III I don't, I don't think I've got any active aws ones here to show you. I'm sure everyone can imagine. Yeah, there's the, there would be all of those outbound links. So that way you're kind of connected, uh, up to everything that you need. Um, anything in settings that we should call out. No, this is mostly just how this is just like management. You can't, I think you can manage your integrations here uh, in that 2nd, 2nd tab. But a lot of if you have, uh if you have CD set up, this is uh where you probably went in the service before the email notifications. Is that or if I just not, if I've not seen it, it is actually not new. It has been there, but I think it was sort of like hidden in like all of the text that was up there previously. So it is a little more noticeable now. Uh But yeah, you can toggle that on and off. So if you need to be notified about like activity that's happening on your stack, uh you can absolutely use that. Nice. Awesome. Uh And if people want to send feedback that's quite prominent down here on the bottom. Yes. And again, we, I any as soon as you put anything through that form, like we'll see it like I'm gonna, I will get notified and I will see the, the text that you wrote. So nice. Well, I think there's lots of updates there for people who love um what I would encourage anyone watching to do is to just use the feedback form and use the, the Twitter use. I don't know, email whatever your preference is, but feel free to get in touch with us. Um, if you want to see further improvements, we're always happy to, to listen to new ideas and there's a great team of people that are gonna work it out and, and keep rolling out all these changes. Yeah. Yeah. Let me pop back over. We do want everyone to feel like if you have feedback, if you have thoughts that like we will absolutely listen and think on anything that you're saying and really try to like make a case for, for you as a user. Um and in all the work that we do moving forward. So that's very important that we communicate that out to everyone. It does not just go into the ether and never to be heard from again. So, so once we deployed these, these service U I changes, like the UX isn't finished. It's, it's not marked as done, right? Like it's an, oh my God, nothing is ever done. We're always like listening to and seeing like did these changes that we make have the effect that we want, did this introduce anything else that uh you know, is like kind of like a net new frustration for people and like, how can we uh how can we then go back in and make more changes and then iterate on those changes and then so on and so forth. And, I mean, you know, we're a young enough company that, you know, we're, there's a lot of things that we, we want to kind of uh continue to improve. Uh And I think there's like a lot of opportunity for deciding, like, where, where can we go next? Uh Which is very exciting. So, OK. Uh So I'm curious now, this question is just purely for me, but, you know, we've talked about how, you know, the work that you're doing and your team are doing is to improve the service and stuff over time. But do you apply that same methodology of collecting feedback and improvements to like our cli applications uh as well? Like does UX stop on the website or does it go a bit further than that? Yeah. So UX does not stop at the website. So your experience, you know, constitutes like every part of the product that you touch. Um I personally do a little less work on the cli than like, let's say the service, but we absolutely still collect all of that feedback that people give about the cli. Uh and then particularly like being an open source company, like we have like the ability need to, you know, we have all of these uh like public get hub repos where we can track issues and stuff. Uh So that's why it's like super important for like uh for our community to kind of contribute there and, you know, up vote issues that are really important to them because that does inform like how we, how we proceed and what we prioritize as being like, you know, this is going to really affect, like, positively affect uh the user experience of our product. Um So, yes, absolutely. If you don't have to just have feedback on the service or anything, if there is something about your experience in the cli or on our Docs or in our registry, anything, anything Pulumi related, uh that's still, that's still part of your experience. And we would still love to, to hear about the, the good and the bad of that. Awesome. Well, we have one of our colleagues in the comments as well and agree. There's definitely lots of things we can make better on a stack page. Uh Yeah, like I said UX is not done and we're going to continue to improve as much as possible. Uh We have a question from linkedin from asking. Does Pulumi put up a? Um Yeah, I mean, it totally can. Uh we have providers for AWS, for Google Cloud, for Azure. And if you even want to spin up Bare metal Cooper clusters, then you can just head over to our, our aws do take a look at the EPS um resource on GCP. We have JKE resources and A KS on. So those are pretty good places to get started if you need a co All right. Well, uh thank you for joining me today and for sharing more about you the, the work that you're doing and all of the amazing service U I updates that we've seen drop in the last couple of weeks. Um I know this is always a tricky question, but I'll ask anyway, you know, like, what, what, what's next on your road map? What are you, you're looking to improve in the future? Oh, there we go. I know we do, we do have exciting things in the works. Many of which we cannot share at this time. Uh I will say, I guess maybe a, a diplomatic way of saying this, we do, the user experience team does have a public um like project board. So any of like our public facing endeavors, uh anybody can kind of uh go to the Pulumi get hub and see what it is that we are working on. Uh So I guess if you have, if you have curiosity there, uh please feel free to deep dive. Um But yeah, uh we, we wanna, we wanna do everything and more. So there's, there's lots, there's lots that's still on the table for us to, to tackle. Awesome. Thank you very much. All right, I think we're gonna leave it there. Uh There's a few comments on the chat that I think our colleague Lee Briggs is already over them with some great answers. As well there. So thank you to everyone who's watched. I need to thank you for spending some time with me today and sharing those updates. I look forward to doing more updates in the future, but for now, I'll say have a great weekend and most of you again. Thanks again. Bye.

---
