---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - PulumiUP Special with Luke Hoban"
title: "PulumiVision - PulumiUP Special with Luke Hoban"
meta_desc: |
    Matty Stratton and Luke Hoban (Pulumi CTO) dig into all the new awesome features released at PulumiUP!
url_slug: pulumivision-pulumiup-special-luke-hoban
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - PulumiUP Special with Luke Hoban"
  description: |
    Matty Stratton and Luke Hoban (Pulumi CTO) dig into all the new awesome features released at PulumiUP!
  sortable_date: 2022-05-06T08:03:34Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/ugeUrANjvWE
transcript: |
    Well, here it is uh it's May 5th, which is the day after May the fourth, which, you know, is a special Star Wars Day if you're the kind of nerd that I am, but it is also um was a big day for Pulumi. It was Pulumi up. We uh launched a whole bunch of things. We have the new version of Pulumi and I'm joined today on this special edition of Pulumi Vision with uh Pulumi CTO with Luke Hoban. So Luke, welcome to the Pulumi Vision. Yeah. Thank you so much. It's great to be here. My first time being able to join you on Vision. So it's a fun time to do it with the launches yesterday, right? We got a lot to talk about too. Um So one of the things just to sort of think through and actually I'm, I'm gonna surprise you with a question that you don't know is coming because I meant to ask it like in the company Slack, but I forgot. Um So if we sort of look historically at Pulumi, you know, over the years of the different versions. Um But so last, you know, last April, you know, we launched Pulumi 33.0. And, uh, you know, yesterday launched the, uh, Pulumi I AC or Universal I ac. Now, one of the things that came up, uh, so last year when we did the launch of Pulumi 3.0 at Pulumi, we were all given a three day weekend because it was three dot And at the time I, I told my son and he said, does that mean when it's Pulumi four dot You'll have a four day weekend. And so now it being universal, I think that I don't know what that means for our PT, I guess what, we have unlimited PTO. So it's universal. We already have it. But at the time, we also decided to do an all company uh week off in, in the, in the middle of summer. So, so that's the universal PTO, right? So we got it handled. But yeah, my son was like, well, that's great. When you get to like version six, you get the opportunity to encourage everyone to ship more often, right? Ship the more days off we get. But, uh, no, I think it's, um, you know, the teams obviously worked really hard over the last few months. So I think a lot of folks are taking days off today tomorrow, next week. Uh, you know, to sort of unwind after, uh after a lot of work to get to some cool releases last yesterday. I am definitely taking tomorrow off. So I'm getting my three day weekend. Um, so, yeah, so let's talk about a couple of the things that there's a few, actually, I think almost all of the things that got announced are Bangers. Right? Like they were big, but there's a few that are maybe not necessarily bigger but maybe a little more, uh, attention getting. Um, I mean, 11 of them is, you know, support for, for Java as a language, you can write your Pulumi programs in which, you know, previously you had all the dot net languages. Although I guess it's Java, there's, there's a Java do maybe conversion between all these things, right? OK. But you know, yeah, yeah, for sure. So um and that's huge, right? Like Java is, you know, it's, it's been around for a minute. Yeah, I mean, not just, not just around for a minute but, but been been a huge part of, you know, the the developer landscape for, for a long time and uh still just like incredibly broad usage, one of the most used, you know, programming languages and runtime environments um in the world and uh you know, clearly some big pockets of heavy usage in the cloud infrastructure kind of space. A lot of big, you know, kind of cloud companies uh using a lot of Java. And so, yeah, so no, it was, it was one of the ones for, for us, it was one of these ones that was clearly a when not if kind of thing, um, from the very early days of Pulumi, um, you know, we knew that we were gonna support Java. Um It was just a matter of, you know, when is that gonna come in the sequence of, of new languages we bring on. Um And so it was really, I think it was great to, to ship it uh yesterday and, and, you know, add that support and be able to bring, you know, one of the great things with Pulumi is when we add new languages, they sort of immediately get everything that Pulumi has, right? So part of this universal infrastructures code thing is, you know, they get all of the different libraries, we support all the different cloud providers, all the different cloud architectures, all the different pooling and, and features like that. And so every new language you've added has sort of when it, when it becomes available, there's even more available on day one because Pulumi itself has gotten bigger and broader and richer um in that time period. And so I think it's just really fun seeing now when we bring up a new language, just how much stuff is available to use, you know, through that and then plugging that into everything that's available in the Java ecosystem, the, the ID tool, the, you know, the productivity tool, the package management, the testing tools, you know, everything that's available, like it just has one of the richest sort of software engineering ecosystems. In some sense, the Java ecosystem was one of them that really pushed forward our notion of what software engineering at scale could look like and sort of redefined that um back, you know, 20 years ago or so, uh and a lot of those lessons have now been brought into other communities. But I think that the Java ecosystem really pushed the bar up a, a long way on that. And that's kind of that whole trend is what Pulumi sits on top of how do we take all of those things that were developed in these ecosystems and make them now available for, for cloud uh engineering development. So, yeah, that's what I was thinking when I said it was like, it's been around for a minute, it's like very mature, right? You know, and the ecosystem is mature and, and, and there's a lot built around that and that's one of the, you know, great things about, you know, writing, you know, having a general purpose programming language is what you write your info code in is you get all this stuff for free, right? You know what I mean? It's, it's already there and you can, can leverage that both the lessons and just even the tooling. Um But then on the other side of that, so to speak, maybe not the other side, I don't put them in at cross purposes. But um we also, you know, Pulumi Yael, which was kind of a, you know, I, I think people might have even been expecting that on April 1st. Maybe. I don't know. But, you know, but I don't think it's really as, uh, as controversial as it might have, might have seen at first. Yeah, it's, it's, it's one that, it's never been a controversial idea, um, to me, uh, per se but, but it, but it has been controversial, you know, to, to other folks, you know, folks, you know, inside polling for many of our customers and things, like, when we first mentioned it, they're like, oh, wait, what? I, I don't know if you know this or not, Luke people have strong feelings about ya. I know. I know. And it's interesting because it's, it's one of these things where I think, you know, for a lot of folks, the way that they thought about, you know, what is Pulumi, especially folks who haven't really used Pulumi yet, you know, maybe they've just heard about it somewhere or, you know, casually familiar with, with what we're doing, you know, I think a lot of folks they think, oh, that's, you know, uh, infrastructures code. Um, but with real program languages, you know, with traditional, you know, program languages instead of, or a, or CL or something. And, and I think that that is it, you know, to a first order approximation. That's not a bad way to think about it. That is sort of at the heart of what's different and the heart of what enables kind of the, the software engineering uh features and that sort of thing that, that we, we bring to bear. But it sort of has never been our, you know, my way, at least of thinking about what we're doing. My way is it's really been about building the best, you know, modern infrastructures, code tool for the kind of applications that, that, you know, we want to be able to build today. I really moving forward the state of the art for how people think about building and delivering, you know, cloud software. And I think existing program languages gave us a whole bunch of tools for moving the bar, you know, uh on on software engineering and helping folks to do more. Um and has, has been great and I think it's been something that's been important for the industry. But in the, in the last, you know, four years since we launched the Pulumi open source project, you know, Pulumi has taken on a whole bunch, you know, has added value in a whole bunch of other places related to core infrastructure's code. We have native providers for, for being sort of the best way to work with all the major cloud platforms. We have, you know, dozens I think now almost 90 providers uh for various cloud and solutions, we have a really rich infrastructures code deployment engine. It's, it's fast, it has you know, a ton of rich features like, you know, secrets embedded in it and that sort of thing. And so across the board, we have a bunch of value and now it's like, well, now let's go take all that stuff we've built and let's make it available as well to folks who may want a simpler interface to this. They may not need all those, you know, benefits you get from a kind of a software engineering approach. They may actually, you know, want a very simple single file, you know, a dozen lines of YAML. Um And there's a whole bunch of use cases, we've seen where that, that is the appropriate way to interface with it, but you can still get all the value of Pulumi. Uh And so I think that that aspect was just sort of been been clear in terms of how we think about, you know, what Pulumi is. Um I think, you know, it is a little bit of a shift and, and a broadening of kind of what Pulumi is uh for how, how, you know, our our user base and, and community and the ecosystem sees us. Um But I think you can, you can think of it really as you know, Pulumi now is uh we're trying to be AAA totally complete offering for infrastructures code, anyone trying to work with cloud infrastructure. Uh We want Pulumi to be the best way to do that. Um No matter if you were, you know, working on something really small and simple and you want to use or you're working on something huge and complex and want to use, you know, go or typescript or Python or Java. Um Yeah, sorry. I was uh thinking when you're talking about this, we had a stream last week. Um Lee Briggs was on, on the show and I'll, I'll drop the, the link in the chat for people. But we talked a lot about the, when you're looking at an infrastructures code tool about there's the authoring experience and the execution experience, right? Like where that goes. And I think a lot of things that we're, you know, when we think about adding Java and the L and everything, it's really enhancing that authoring experience, the experience of how you're creating it, right? Where that, where that's going and um what you talked about really resonates with me a lot. So like I've, yeah, I've been here at Pulumi for a little over a year but like as I keep saying, not, not everybody knows, but I talk about it enough. I feel like anybody who knows me knows this, that it took me like a year to come here, right? Like I was, I was talking to, you know, talking to Pulumi a year before I came and circumstances whatever. But when I came around the second time to talk and this was right before um um three. Do you know I mean, so automation api hadn't been released but it was part of the conversation. And I remember talking to Joe and he was talking about it, not necessarily with that name. And, and to me all of this, like, how are we creating something with Polu? It's not just writing some infra code that you then run, but it's like they say, how do you build this together? How do you solve this problem? How do you put these things together? That's what resonated to me where I said, OK, this is, this is something different because like you said, if it's just sort of like, OK, well, now I can write it in YAML, it's, it's or again the same thing. Oh yeah, I mean, it's very cool that we can use general purpose programming languages that people already know. But that's, that's uh a feature of the core idea, right? Which is being able to compose this stuff in, in the way that is more than just its own isolated thing that goes and does infrastructure. Yeah, I think it's a great way of saying it. I think, you know, for a lot of folks that notion that Pulumi, Pulumi is the definition of what Pulumi was, was using traditional general purpose program languages. For us, that was a means to an end, not an end in and of itself, right? That was one way of sort of bringing to bear a lot of that self engineering you know, capabilities and tools and strengths and getting to bring all of what you know, already exists in the Java ecosystem or typescript ecosystem and, and get it immediately. Um But, but we, we knew that that wasn't just, that wasn't by itself the goal, the goal is really make it possible for everyone who wants to, to manage infrastructure to scale up what they can build. And even if what you the interface you want is a simple interface like L that's just gonna be, you know, a dozen lines of, of, of a code in the YAML file. Uh I think, you know, even for that, you, you still may have complexity behind the scenes that you want to work with right now, I can go push that off into a component written in typescript or I can go, you know, kind of build on top of one of the components from the plume registry. And so our kind of vision for what this is gonna look like um really includes these, these simple interfaces to pushing the complexity off into other places and having, you know, a central team managing that or an open source community, managing that and, and building that up over time. Absolutely. So I'm looking at a couple of the other things. So we had those, those were, I feel like the marquee features because they're easy to, not easy to understand, but they're, they're good for a quick tweet, right? Java um but for me, there's a couple that I, I'll tell you, there's one that I'm just personally very interested in and this is someone who writes a lot of examples of Pulumi stuff. Um And that's crosswalk in all the languages. So for, for folks who don't know, we um have a um oh we had this whole discussion in the open spaces earlier about crosswalk. Aws X is a collection. It's not a component, it's a component package. I'm trying anyway, fundamentally it's like um what it, what makes it a little bit easier like, so for example, let's say you want to set up a VPC in Aws, right? And you're gonna do that and for lack of a better word, raw Pulumi, right? Or using the existing regular normal Aws provider, whether it's Aws classic or Native, there's a bunch of stuff you gotta do, right? And a lot of that is fundamentally boiler plate like it's just you just do it the same way all the time and everybody does it the same way you sort of as a given. So crosswalk lets us like sit there and say like, OK, these are abstraction, right? Higher level abstractions maybe is a way to put it, right? Like the thing it expressing good practices, standard practices so that you can do in a couple of lines of code what might take 15. Um So up until yesterday, this was only in typescript, right? And um I will just say this from a perspective of somebody who was learning Pulumi a year ago. And I was like, cool. Ok. Well, I like to write and go. So I'm gonna look at this, this tutorial which was written using AWS X and little did I know that it wasn't gonna work and, you know, and going into that. So this is really cool though because it's a applicable across like this, going back to the idea that like, we don't really care what language you're writing in it, you know, and having that uh experience lets you focus on the things that are specific to your problem and not get mired down into stuff that every single person that's doing a VPC on Aws is gonna do. Right? No, I think it's exactly right. And I think, you know, this idea of, I think in, in, in infrastructure code space generally, I think that the, up until the last few years really, the state of the art was largely copy paste, right? It was, hey, I'm, I've got to go to VPC. Let me go search on Google for someone who's done this before. I'm gonna copy paste their 500 lines of L or HCL over. Uh, and now if I need to change something, I'm just gonna figure it out. Right. And, um, and so you see these just enormous amounts of complexity, enormous amounts of reinventing the wheel, enormous amounts of sort of copy paste driven uh, infrastructure development. Uh and, and sort of, we, we know that, that, that just, you know, there's, there's deep limits to, to how much that can scale and how robust that can be. And, you know, when you start really worrying about security, best practices and that sort of thing, like, um, you know, compliance, you know, all these things so important to just have best practices, components off the shelf that you can use and in most other areas of, of software development, that's just a given, right? You wouldn't go into your, you know, web server code base and just start copy pasting 1000 lines of code around, right? You, you'd feel dirty, right? You feel like you're not supposed to do that, right? You're supposed to go figure out how to refactor that into a library and go use it. Um And so I think this idea that, you know, we want to build reusable abstractions is just a very simple common kind of uh software engineering concept. And, you know, it's been our goal to bring that into the um into the cloud infrastructure space. I think that when we started the project, we, you know, kind of, we only supported a few languages um initially and so we kind of started off building some uh some of these high level components ourselves and you know, having customers and users of Pulumi who would go build their own components, but they build them in the language they're working in. So, if they were a Python shop, they'd go build it in Python. If there are no shop, they'd go build it in typescript. And those were now constrained to that one language ecosystem because you couldn't share them across. Right. So, the Python folks couldn't use the things built by the typescript people and vice versa. And when we went and built these libraries, we built them in typescript. And that was great because, you know, a bunch of folks use times, but then, you know, some people didn't and so now they can't use them. And, and so I think over the last couple of years, we've put a big investment, one of the, the biggest uh you know, features in the sense of our launch uh Ploy 30 last year was sort of plume packages and this ability to create reusable components in any language and share them, uh you know, uh in the plume registry. And, and so I think with that foundation has now given us the ability to go back to some of the libraries we've built that have been popular that were built initially only for one language ecosystem and now make them available to all the language ecosystems. And, you know, last year we did that for our eeks package, we did that for um our uh API gateway package. And, and then yesterday, I think for the rest of the things is part of our kind of core crosswalk for w so for ECs for low balancing, for VPC, um, and for a handful of other things as well. And again, to call back to yet another episode of Pulumi Vision with Lee Briggs, we did one a few weeks ago where we did exactly. That took a, uh, Pulumi package that had been written in typescript and then showed how to very easily turn that into, uh, all the SDKS. So, um which when you're writing something new from scratch, now, it's not, you don't have to convert, you know, it's a little bit of a different scenario. It's, it's, but, but you still can sit and write that in the language you prefer. And, and I think that that stream that we did was, was great because it, it really just sort of, we, we've talked about it a lot, we have examples and stuff, but it was literally just a video of like Lee, we were just like, here's how you do it. Yeah. Right. You know, so, um and that, that makes reusability, like you said, in sharing because I think our ecosystem is driven by, you know, when we, we think about things like, um you know, getting people to, you know, we talk about how do we get more people to contribute, open source to Pulumi. It's like we're really generally in a scenario like this. It's not so much we want, I mean, we love people to help contribute back to the core and to the provider and all that. But really, it's the component stuff, it's stuff like that, the, the, you know, um that they can share with other people and solve problems, like you said. So, yeah, I think it's interesting because today, you know, lots of folks inside, you know, lots lots of users of Pulumi inside their organization are building these reusable components. They're building, you know, abstractions that capture sort of the definition of how they want to go and configure their networking and application, you know, uh compute uh frameworks and data models and that sort of thing. So all that is happening inside that, that organization, I think, you know, one of the things we really want to do is help folks to go take those patterns and, and make it really easy for them to go publish that back into open source communities, into the ecosystem to contribute back into the libraries that, that we build. Um And so, so that's something that uh is, is a big area of, of sort of focus for us. And, but we're continuing to reduce that barrier to entry, to make it easier and easier and easier for folks to, to build these things and share them and, and contribute is, is really important. So, so one of the next things and this is one where I will freely admit, I just don't know enough about it to talk, as I say, to speak intelligently, but even to speak un intelligently about it too much. I need to do a little more reading. So I'm gonna learn a minute. But the, the Aws CD K on Pulumi, like I, I, you know, I've, I've, I've read and watched and stuff but I haven't wrapped my, my arms around it and we've got someone in the chat was already very intrigued by it. So, like, that's the story. I think this is, this is actually one of the most kind of interesting things. I think that was in uh the, the launch yesterday. And it's actually, I think it's a really a really cool uh thing that we've been able to do. And um you know, just for some background for folks who, who kind of aren't familiar, uh the, the AWS CD K is a project that has many similar goals in a sense to, to Pulumi, right? You know, it was a project built initially, uh you know, all within AWS to um to make it possible to kind of work with uh you know, building uh cloud infrastructure using traditional program languages. And so also supports typescript and Python and, and go and dot net. Um And uh lets you take uh you know, uh programs written in those languages and, and in its case, compile them down to cloud formation, right? So now you can go and, you know, build your infrastructure using these traditional programming languages and using libraries that the A US CE K provides and then turn that into cloud formation and deploy it kind of into AWS using cloud formation. Uh And so, but it has that same, you know, that same, we, we share the same kind of vision for what the future is gonna look like, right? That it's gonna look like uh engineers uh you know, using software, using programming languages to describe infrastructure to use build and use um higher level abstractions over that. And so we've, you know, uh we've, we've spent over the years uh talked a lot with, you know, the folks working on the ABC DK project. And in fact, I remember showing a demo to uh be Israel who uh was, was the founder of the, the CD K project, uh had reinvent like four years ago, uh showed him a demo of, of something along the lines of what we shipped yesterday where you could sort of use ABC DK components inside uh inside Pulumi. Uh And so we've played around with that idea a bunch of times uh over, over the years and, and talked about ways we could sort of uh you know, bring the projects effectively closer together, let you use, you know, some of the best of both uh together. Uh And I think late last year, we sort of uh started looking at it again and, and um actually uh found that there were some really nice ways to make it work um some, some improvements to both on the side and the CD K side that made it even easier to integrate. Um And so, so we, we did that work um earlier this year and, and shipped it yesterday. And the key thing it enables really um is to use a CD K, you know, they, they call what we call components, they call constructs. So to use ABC DK constructs uh from within a plume program. And so it means there's this library of uh kind of easy to use higher level abstractions for Aws specifically that have actually been built by the Aws teams. So the service teams who build the, the actual services themselves often go and to find some higher level, you know, uh frameworks for CD K for working with those things. And uh and so there's a ton of value there and we don't want to go have to recreate all of that, you know, and we don't want to compete with, with Aws on building great um great libraries for, for their platform. That's something that they're uniquely, uniquely good at. We've always wanted to understand. Well, how can we go take all that stuff that is available that Abris has built and let folks use that from within Pulumi if they want to so that they can mix and match it with the other things they're doing with Pulumi with other clouds with, you know, the long tail of third party, you know, kind of a and cloud providers we have with all the rich features of the plume deployment engine, just all the value of Pulumi plus all the value of this sort of set of libraries um that the CD K offers. And uh yes, that's what we've done. We've made it. So you can basically take any CD K construct uh and deploy it uh from within a pluming program and you can mix and match, you can create a pluming resource, pass the outputs of that into a CD K construct, take the outputs of that pass into a pluming resource, like you can sort of do all these kind of magical things. Um And it, it's, it's useful for, for both sides, you know, for, for folks who primarily work with ABC DK, it actually gives you an option where you can kind of do the same thing you're doing today. Use the same, you know, you can write the same code you're writing today, but deploy it using Pulumi instead of deploying it using cloud formation. Uh And so there's a lot of reasons why Pulumi might be attractive just as deployment technology. Um it's faster, it has a richer set of kind of uh features in the Pulumi Sa and Plumy console, it can interoperate with, you know, other cloud environments um that sort of thing. So, so for pure sort of a CD K users, it's an interesting kind of option that they now have, and then for Pulumi users, it means that they now have access into this sort of ecosystem of additional libraries and things that they can pull in and use, uh, from Pulumi. That's pretty awesome. Um, I'm just poking around here too. So we had a whole bunch of new providers that got, you have to go into all of them. But, you know, Oracle Cloud was sort of the big, big one in terms of like AAA whole cloud, right? You know. Um but a lot of, and which is to me like a big part of this too because like a lot of times people will be like, well, why wouldn't you just use like what, you know, whatever from A MS, whatever from Microsoft for Azure and stuff. And it's like, because services don't live just in the hyper scalar, right? You have pager duty, you have github, you have artifact, you have like, you know, data, do you have all these things that go with it? And so I'm just sort of poking at some of these, I'm like, so artifact that's pretty big. Um You know, and Slack, I didn't even notice until I saw it on the little logo slide. I'm like, that's cool. So you can configure slack with Pulumi. Um ok. What, what so? Ok. Now I'm sorry, now I'm poking to see. Ok, so you can basically send notifications to Slack in a way. Well, you send messages to Slack through Pulumi. It looks like I, I, I'm not, I actually don't off the top of my head. Recall what set of resources the slack provider often has. Uh I'll tell you it has conversation and user group so you can, so you can, and you can like get conversation, get, user, get user group so you can. But the user group, that's the one that, to me, I totally see, like being super helpful in this idea of I have a service I'm creating um you know, because it's like all the stuff you do. It's like, OK, we, we, we, we create this, this group in our github organization for the developers of this thing. We do this thing. Yeah, we probably create a slack group, not a channel but like a group to notify, you know, to, to tag them that just some of these. And this is the thing, I think this is actually a good example of like sometimes it doesn't have to be huge. It's just a little thing that is part of the work that you do um in terms, you know, I mean, like the, the, the scope of what you can do with the slack provider. I mean, really how much do you need to do? You know? Yeah. And often it is that one or two key resources that sort of lets you kind of automate some, some use case uh that are so important and no, I I think it is actually one of the things I, I find just really fun is, you know, some of these, uh, providers, you know, people really think about, you know, Pulumi and, and I ac as being about the big cloud providers. But, um, but there are so many of these providers that are just surprisingly valuable to be able to automate them and, and once people really start thinking about those, they start thinking a little bit differently about what they can do in their automation, right? So now they can kind of use Pulumi like, like you gave that example, um you know, 11 variant of that, we have a lot of a lot of use cases for Polu when we talk to the customers using Pulumi, it's very common that it's a team. Well, 11 use case, I'd say at least is that the team is using Pulumi to sort of orchestrate some provisioning, right? So, so maybe when a customer comes to them, they need to stand up a new tenant uh for that customer. And so they're gonna provision some infrastructure specific to that customer, they're gonna employ some workloads into that uh thing, but they may also need to hook up things in other systems, right? They may need to hook up some things in github. They may need to hook up some things in slack, they may need to hook up some things in pager duty. Um You know, like So as part of that provisioning process, there may be a whole set of things they've got to go do. And instead of putting those things all in some run book where they've got to have some user go manually do these 20 actions. Every time a customer on boards, they can build a piece of pluming software that just says, hey, here's all the things we need and here's how they're all gonna be connected to each other. And we can just do, you know, click a button to run an automation API program and that's gonna go uh deploy that new tenant. And we've seen a whole bunch of customers who, you know, have been able to like really substantially improve the level of automation for some of these things. And because of that, you know, automating is one of those just, just amazing things where you can take something that would take weeks before and turn it into minutes, right? And just these incredible savings and that, that changes how your product feels to your customers, that changes how your business works like it, it, it's a very impactful thing. And, and so I think, I think some of these providers that connect through into a systems that can help with the how automat uh some of these workflows are um are really exciting, but you mentioned Oracle Cloud as well, that that's a, you know, um that's, you know, another big cloud provider um that the Pulumi now supports. Um We've had, you know, head folks asking for that for a while. It's actually, it's a big provider has a lot of surface area that they have in Oracle Cloud. And, um so it was actually one that, you know, took a bit of effort to kind of get on board because it's, it's, it's so big. Um But we also, you know, had started talking to the, the folks at Oracle um more recently again about the, our Java support. I'm talking about our Java side of the Oracle team. Uh And so kind of, it was natural to, to kind of have both of those discussions as well and I get some of their support uh for kind of getting this um brought online. And so, um so I think it was part of the timing for it was, was kind of working with them on both Java and the Oracle cloud infrastructure. So, um but it, but no, it's really great to have that out there. We already have had uh some folks sharing some really cool things they've built uh on top of the Oracle cloud provider. Yeah, I just dropped a link. It's not really about those provided, but it connects us. So it's a blog post I wrote last year. Um And you wouldn't know it as much from the title because it says it's, it was one of my organizational patterns posts, but it's, it's uh heavily inspired by like how green park sports works, but they do this, like where it's a, it's a kind of a good pseudo Cody example of the, when they have a service, what they do and they have the packages that do the pager duty or do the data dog and the github and all the things and it's all built within, within that. Um So, and then speaking of things you can provide like it wasn't listed under the new SASS providers, but it could be is you could have thrown the Pulumi logo on that because now you can manage the, you know, your own, your Pulumi service that way, your Pulumi organization in, in various ways. And um which sounds like Pulumi section, but it's super accurate, you know, super necessary, right? Like, yeah, this one, we've, you know, I think like, uh you know, Pulumi users are, are going to be the kind of folks uh the folks who use the Pulumi service are going to be the kind of folks who are sort of IEC maximalist and kind of into infrastructures code. Um And so we got a lot of ask for this, right? Um You know, we got a lot of ask for a while, like, you know, we, we, in fact, we released kind of a a documented rest api for the Pulumi Service back um uh late last year, some time. And, you know, the immediate thing that everyone was asking us was like, Oh, great, great. You have that. But where's the polling provider? I give us the API give us the ping provider. Uh And so, um and so that, that's what we, that's what we ended up doing here. Uh And, you know, it is, it, it, it's, it's exactly for the same reasons we were just talking about but apply those now to the police service. There's a whole bunch of automation scenarios that folks want to do, especially like, you know, actually team management is, is a really fascinating one of just like who's on what team, what are the permissions and wanting to sort of drive that through some desired state system instead of having to ask some operator to go point and click, you know, in the console to, to give the right permissions. Um And so, so there's a bunch of interesting scenarios like that. But um it's interesting, we had, you know, I got to do a bunch of demos in the keynote uh yesterday and uh you know, love, love, loved all of them. But, but my, my favorite just because I, I'm I, I geek out on these things is it was actually the demo of this uh you know, Pulumi service provider because it is this very Pulumi section thing, you're able to, you know, uh create a webhook, uh which gets fired every time you do an update. And so every update to the stack which defines this webhook actually fires the web hook. Right. And so you're kind of building this program and it's like, you know, it's, it's telling itself about the changes to itself. Uh, it's just a, it's just a fun little, uh, kind of demo and a really cool example of the sort of thing that is, is easy to do with Pulumi and, and really hard actually to do with, with most other kind of systems. Um, and I think like the last, which is a little bit more plumbing, but it's sort of the cross code thing, which I'm still sort of getting my arms wrapped around this. It's, it's a lot of, uh, again, for lack of better word, plumbing improvements, right? Like, and, and just how the engine works, how our generations work, but correct me if I'm wrong. But one of the big things about this is, um, I can write stuff in Yamal for example, and I can dump that out into another language, you know, and, or, or, or vice versa because, uh, so like this is like the Lee Briggs appreciation show. I decided, I know, I know. Did you see Lee's Post yesterday? He wrote this book about deploying Cooper daddy and ridiculous languages like FORTRAN and everything. And it's because that can generate Jason which goes into that. And then basically you could write a program in FORTRAN that would deploy your C cluster which don't, don't do this. But, but you can, which is you know, um, kind of the thing but like, what are some of the stuff around that? What are some of the stuff? I swear I speak for a living. No, I, uh, yes, I think cross code is, is interesting because, you know, it was something that wasn't, it wasn't per se, um, something we launched yesterday. Um, but it, it was something that we're kind of giving a name to an underlying piece of technology that's been available for a while and that with the launches yesterday is even more kind of critical component of, of what we're doing. And so, uh I think the, the, the key way to think about cross code is it's a set of technologies that we use under the hood to sort of support this, you know, multi multi language, multi cloud uh uh strategy that we kind of have in terms of the core of Pulumi. And so it's, you know, if you, if you really think about it um from, from the perspective of kind of us building Pulumi, it's a few things, one, it's, it's something we call Pulumi schema, which is the sort of language neutral way of describing the surface area for a piece of, you know, a cloud infrastructure library, whether that's a, a cloud provider or a component package or whatever it is, it's just a language neutral way of describing what one of these things is. And we, we for everything in the Pulumi registry for example, it comes with a Pulumi schema that describes it. Um And that, that's one of the core pieces of cross code, we then support, you know, uh SDK generators. So the ability to go take, you know, that schema and turn it into a library in any of our supported languages. So now for any package that's in the registry, we can go say, well, here's the way that you use that from Java or here's the way you use that from YAML or here's the way you use that from, from typescript. Um And then we have, you know, documentation generation. So a way to turn the schema into rich API documentation for the Pulumi resource model. And so that's what you see when you go into, you know the plum registry, for example, you see all this rich API documentation for for tens of thousands of API S um that's all generated through that cross code docs generator. And the last one, which is sort of where some of the interesting new capabilities we've talked about recently come about is we, we actually have this technology, we sort of uh we call Pulumi configuration language, but it's really an intermediate language that is sort of a representation that users don't interact with directly. But that is a uh kind of representation of, of Pulumi programs. But um but sort of an abstract representation that you won't use directly, but we have the ability to convert things from a whole bunch of other places into uh this plumbing configuration language and then turn plumy configuration language into any supported Pulumi language. And so, you know, for example, you know, we support the ability to turn things from we have a TF to Pulumi tool, right, which lets you turn terraform code into um into PC L and then into any of our Pulumi languages. Uh we have arm to Pulumi and cube to Pulumi and a whole bunch of other conversion tools and we have Pulumi import, which lets you point at some existing cloud infrastructure and say I would like to bring that into Pulumi and I'm gonna get some code uh for that. And so that also sits on top of the same technology. Um And then most recently with the launches yesterday as part of our YA O launch, we kind of knew one of the things that we've seen with, with every other kind of approach to kind of a Yaml or, or, you know, simple DS L for, for cloud infrastructure is that you just hit a limit, right? At some point, it gets too big, it gets too complicated, but you've already, you've already bet on that tool. And so you kind of get stuck, right? Um You've got this complexity, you don't know what to do, you, you, you don't want to move to another tool because it's gonna be very disruptive. And so one of the things we wanted to make sure is part of us introducing a tool like Yaml was that we, we always had an easy way for you to, you know, get a go on the off ramp, right? If, if you, now, if your complexity is large and you want to use Python, you wanna use typescript, wanna make that really, really easy. And so that's, you know, the Pulumi convert command that we added, which sits on top of the same technology, um the same PC L, the same, same everything we've built to kind of convert between other languages and other systems. Now, all that's available uh to, you know, go convert, pull me ML into other languages and you could do that, you can take your existing infrastructure, your production deployment could be deployed with the ML. And now you're like, oh I want to start managing the typescript, you just run one command, hit, pull me up, nothing changes. And now you can start adding features and continue um evolving it from there. So really, really easy to, to sit on top of that. But cross code really is just, you know, the, the thing that powers all of that, it's, it's those core pieces of technology around um schema cogeneration and uh this intermediate language. That's awesome. Um I'm just uh uh with in the chat, there's was some conversation about, you know, creating a provider and stuff. So um it's definitely, you know, not, not a thing to do like over your lunch break or anything necessarily. But I, I feel like uh our documentation and that guide uh I put it in the link in the chat has definitely um made things a little, little, little bit easier as that goes. But hopefully we just want to continue to like improve that authoring experience and I think it's come a long way. Um Let's see. Are there any other like uh so folks in the? Ok. What? Let's see. Oh, yeah. So Marcel says the yael run time is the strawberry on the cake because of the convert argument? Yeah, that's pretty amazing. Um And it, it, it really does change the way that people sort of reason about that. Ok. So, so I'd love to see a provider for the stripe api hm. No, I don't think we have one today. No, I think it's, it's uh yeah, I'm, I'm just curious if you, so, so Enron who chatted if you, um, you don't have to justify yourself to me ever. But I'm curious about where would you do that? Like, like I, you know, I always go through it and someone was like, I wanna have this thing and I'm like, what are you doing? Not like, not that I think you're doing something sketchy, but I'm just like, how do you test YAML code? Yeah. So it is one of the things that, you know, there's a lot of kind of course often during things that are gonna be, you know, a little bit less rich in terms of your capabilities there. Like, you know, hey, we don't have four loops. We don't have their statements. We don't have, we don't have built-in unit testing frameworks, we don't have built in, you know, we don't have any ability to sort of build reasonable components today, which is directly inside the support. So, so one of our goals has really been for, for the animal support to be the very opposite end of the spectrum from where our languages are today to be sort of the simplest sort of uh feature limited uh kind of thing in terms of software engineering. But to give you that ability to, to, you know, convert if you do need those features that said there, there are a bunch of testing techniques that we see people use a lot, we use them internally a lot um for uh for Pulumi programs that you can use actually with the animal support. So, in fact, if you go, um I'll pull up a link here and uh and, and show you um uh find one of these, I guess we actually do a slightly different way inside the, but we have the, we have as, as a a test framework um that, that we use, but it's, it's also a lot of customers use it as well. Um That lets you uh basically take any Pulumi stack written in any language and it's actually it's a go based test framework. Um And so you kind of write the tests in go, but you can use it with any Pulumi language and it runs a, a Pulumi stack, a program through sort of a life cycle where you know, um provides some configuration, stands up the stack, maybe make some deltas to what is deployed in the stack to kind of go through a life cycle of changes you might have made to get there, then run some runtime validation against it. So it goes takes the outputs of the stack. And maybe if the if the stack was supposed to stand up a database, it goes and tests that it can connect to the database and run some queries against the database. Um uh Hang on. Yeah, the integration testing framework. Exactly. So I'll drop the link to this in the chat. Um I'm actually curious because this came up in the open spaces today at Community Summit. Um about, yeah, this running integration tests. And so so while this test is written and go, this can still, it doesn't live in your Pulumi program though, you sort of have to call it right somewhere else or Yeah, no, this this uh this is just, you know, you can use go test, you can drop this one file. In fact, we, you know, so we use this in a lot of places where we don't have any other go code we just, you know, kind of have it, have it work. So this could be sitting in next to my index dot TS and then I have my test file and run go test inside of that same. So that's actually something OK? So I'm note to self this could be updated because that is not clear, I feel like um but you also can do the, the example that's given on this this page too is you can use the automation API to write these integration tests as well, which would again help you like even though what? Because what you're writing in the automation API is not necessarily testing the code because it's an integration test, right? It's testing the out outcome, right? In fact, what this the the the test framework that I mentioned there that is implemented in go the one that we use that one. It was built way long before uh we had automation API. In fact, in some sense, automation API one of the motivating use cases for our automation API was this integration testing framework we built. But you, you could build something very much like it, you know, on automation API, right? It is, it does the same sort of thing. Automation API does it, it it does, you know, does a plume me up but it gets the plumy stack outputs it sort of runs a plumy stack through a bunch of the same sorts of things you would do with it with automation api so automation api makes it really easy to build frameworks like this. So this is the perfect example. I'm looking at this repo here of exactly what we just talked about. So sorry, I know this is not this, this is I'm learning. I hope everybody else is too. So yeah, in this case, so this is, I mean, I don't know what your polling program might look like. But yeah, the program, the program is, is just a ping program, the program and then here you've got the tests. So yeah, that's really it, right. It's just so uh there's nothing to do with blew me up anymore, although it's connected because we talked about this in the in the open spaces. So if I was going to structure this inside my regular Pulumi program like, so I've got my repo and the root of that repo is my in is is this program file. So do I have to like, how do I do these things together? Like what, what is this? Because this is, this is not like how you would structure your polluting program though, right? Because this is the root the program file folder, right? Yeah. So, well, I I can show you, I mean, you can do it sort of however you want. But um you know, 11 example uh maybe if, if I can share my screen and show you, of course. Yeah. So, so yeah, this, you know, this, right? You might need to em in a little bit if you can command plus. Should there you go. Yeah. So this, um, you know, this is just our, our examples. Repo actually just, you know, Pulumi dot com, you know, uh, get dot com slash Pulumi slash example. So just has, you know, this is not, not about testing or anything. This is just about having, you know, dozens and dozens and dozens of uh uh of, of examples for, for using Pulumi. But one of the things that we have, we, we obviously want to test our examples, we wanna make sure that our examples all kind of work correctly. And so we on every commit into, uh you know, into, um, into this repo, we run a huge battery of tests. And so in this M folder, there's this test folder and it has exactly the same sort of things you were just showing, right? These are all these tests and we have a few separate ones just so that we can run subsets of the tests, you know, we can run just the AWS tests for example. Um And each one of these tests is just a really simple thing, right? It just says I wanna run, you know, this uh test, you know, this a Go EKS folder um up in here and, and I wanna run this is the validation I want to do, you know, after I stand up that stack, I wanna find that the, you know, that the result was that it stood up something with an H TB N point that I can reach from the internet, right? Um And so there's just, each one of these tests is really simple, but they automate a whole bunch of standing up uh infrastructure validating it, tearing it all down. And so we run these tests, you know, like, you know, many times a day, we're running thousands of these tests against our cloud infrastructure and standing up all this infrastructure for a minute run and tearing it all down. Um And it provides that all that automation uh provides a ton of assurances that, you know, you kind of, these examples are gonna continue to work or that my components are gonna continue to do what I want. Um Now that I looked at the test, I understand that way to answer my questions because there's part of the, there's basically the thing that's pointing to the Pulumi program. So, and that's just a path, right? So like if you, if you put your test folder inside your program, you're just gonna say pop up, you know, dot dot slash or actually, you know, or what? Yeah. OK. So this is OK. So see, see today I learned um and I feel like I'm gonna need to do some, maybe we'll do a whole other stream about this some time. Um You know, I think, I think testing for infrastructures code is one of these just like super important. I think, you know, people that there's such a desire to bring more confidence uh into uh the infrastructure development and employment process and, and testing, just like it is in, in other areas is one of the great tools you can bring to bear on that. And I actually think, you know, unit testing, which you can do in language is really valuable. Um But it can't give you the same guarantees because it's not actually deploying the infrastructure, right? You're, you're just validating that sort of the wiring right between things. These integration tests are a great way to really validate and end that. You know, the thing works as it says, it's gonna work. It, it's, it's funny. And again, we, we talked about this a little bit in the, the summit when we were talking about um we got into a conversation about testing because always, and it's one of the things I remember and I, I'll give this example uh here again and this was always something that came up with, with chef. So chef had a unit testing framework that was called, yeah, chefs back because it was, you know, basically our spec and so people would write unit tests, but your unit test should not be testing Pulumi or testing like you don't write a test to make sure that dot net works, right? It's your logic. So uh an example would be, you know that, that was my chef example. And I'll think of a plumy example in a minute was, let's say you had some a line of code to install engine X. And so the the chef, the program, all it is is package engine X. And then someone would write a unit test that would be like does this is the package get installed? Would this install the package called the? Well, of course, it would because that's literally what that line does. Now, when you need the test is, let's say you're gonna install Apache where you have a conditional, which is if ubuntu, then the package name is this if Santos package name that, that's the thing to test because you're testing your logic. So the same thing, if you're gonna unit test your Pulumi code, you're testing because you have some kind of logic in there to say, do things a certain way. But if you are doing, if seriously, like, for example, if you had a Pulumi program that was create a VPC and everything was hard coded in it, you don't need to write a unit test for that because you, you, you Pulumi will do what you said, what you're sort of wanting to test is did Pulumi do what you meant, that's how it used to say unit test. It wasn't did the thing do what you said it's did it do what you meant, you know, and, and then again, to Luke's point of advantage of unit test is the very fast. They're good for testing your business logic, so to speak. But, you know, there's, you, you, that's not enough, right? It'll get you started. And also I will say this is me dusting off my old Infra code tester. Um, while unit tests are nice and fast, they're probably kind of, this is the opposite of writing regular code. I guess they're the almost the least important like they're nice to have, right? Like in certain places, but you like get better coverage, quote coverage. That's another thing we can find about. I think on your integration side first, maybe I don't know. What do you think? Yeah, I think, I think uh you know, both, both are really valuable and I think it's, it's, it's almost always important, you know, at every kind of layer I offer to them to kind of a mix of, of, of both kind of categories. Um uh you know, if you, if you only focus integration tests, it can get, you know, relatively heavy weight, right? And so um so those tests, you know, you're not gonna be able to have as many of them, they're not gonna be able to uh probe for as many different combinations of the kind of uh configuration space. But um but they're gonna be able to really validate that the thing properly works. And so I think that a mix is always good I think it's one of the great things with it is easy to have that mix of those two levels. Awesome, awesome. Um Looking back at some of the questions that came up. Um Oh, it's interesting. Yeah. Uh yeah, Matt says, you know, stripe idea you could a cool use case for starting or stopping billing for a single tenant deployment, right? You could as part of when you're bringing up the infrastructure for it, you know, charge for it or so these are all the things I was just, this is the cool thing about doing this kind of work is you get to see all the really interesting problems that people have and and the really clever things they do with it. And I'm sure, you know, creating something like Pulumi and being as a, I'm sure it's like gotta be fascinating for you to be like, wow, we didn't even think someone will want to do this with that and look at that cool thing they did. No, I think it's, it's one of the fun things about working in the kind of developer tools and infrastructure kind of spaces is that, you know, you you have this sort of building these tools that folks are using to go out and build, build, build cool things on top of it. And so, you know, I think you're always kind of learning, but I think it's particularly true with, with someone like Pulumi where it's very horizontal right, we, we kind of support a ton of different clouds to different cloud architecture, to different languages. Um And so we kind of build it in that building block for a horizontal kind of way and kind of let folks build cool things on top. And, you know, there's, there's a lot of similarities across a lot of things that people build. Um But I'm constantly seeing things that are like, wow, that's a really cool application of those ideas. I had no idea. Um, you know, and, uh, and so I think learning from that and seeing where help other folks to kind of go and, and, um, benefit from the same things. So I'm gonna ask you a question along those lines because you've been, been, what's like, the weirdest thing you've seen somebody do with Pulumi and you can use, you can use weird to interpret that however you want. It can be, doesn't necessarily mean bad or just, but just like the thing that made you go, ah, it's a good question. I, uh, I'm sure I have a good answer. It's not, there's nothing coming to mind that there's, uh, there's completely, uh, completely shocking. Um, yeah. No, nothing, nothing comes to mind. This is completely shocking. But, you know, it's, um, you know, see people do things like, where they're managing just, like, files on their, on their file system as part of, like, as part of automating into other systems. They're just having pulling programs that like write files to disc and things like that. Like, I would have never thought of the idea of kind of using infrastructures code to like manage files on your machine. Um But hey, you can do it and there are use cases where that, that could make sense. Um But with things like automation api or I feel like really the, the things that have unlocked kind of the, the most creativity in a sense because, you know, with, with Pulumi, you know, just to, just to see all I entry point, there's a lot of different things you can model, but the workflow is always gonna be kind of the same, right? It's always gonna be that you, you go run, pull me up, right? Um To deploy some stuff. Uh but with automation api it starts to sort of let you plug Pulumi into all sorts of interesting new use cases. And so some of these self service provisioning things, you know, some of these, you know, uh provisioning customer workloads for kind of uh companies is a whole bunch of cool things that, that I've seen built on top of that. Awesome. I'm very excited about the things that people are gonna build. So like when you're doing, if you, if you think your use case for Pulumi is weird uh tweet at us and let us know and the person with the weirdest use case will maybe get some swag or maybe not, I will not commit to anything. Um, but you will get Twitter engagement. I can promise you that. How about that? Um, awesome. Well, that's kind of bringing us to the end here. Uh, any other, like, kind of final thoughts you have Luke about, you know, looking back at, you know, where, where we've been, where we're going, you know. Yeah. No, I think it's, um, you know, it's interesting the, the set of launches, you know, it's, it's been exciting to kind of get, get them out there and, you know, been working on them uh for, for a little while. And I, I think I was kind of mentioning some folks for me, actually, this, this set of kind of releases is part of uh yesterday's launches. Actually some of the, the most uh kind of important new things we've done in the platform. I think since the, the original launch of the platform. And I think in terms of how we think about kind of what Pulumi is and how it can integrate into um into the rest of the sort of infrastructures code market and who it can support and that sort of thing. I think this is really trying to open up, you know, access to Pulumi as really being, you know, the best option for infrastructures code for, for anyone who is trying to uh work with the cloud. And um I think that, you know, it stays the starting point for that. Uh with, with sort of the, the YAML support with the CD K integration, uh with a whole bunch of the things we're doing here. But I think it's, uh there's so much more we still want to do. I think we're, we're continuing to sort of innovate and invent and improve on core infrastructure's code uh ideas. We're continuing to bring those ideas to more and more different audiences. Uh And so I'm excited to keep, keep, you know, working on that. Um I think we, we think that the, the world of how we, you know, build and uh deliver infrastructure to the cloud is gonna look a lot different in a few years than it did a few years ago. Uh And we're, we're kind of excited to be, be working on that. Fantastic. I'm excited to be a part of it. Um So uh as whatever platform you're watching us on youtube, Twitch, whatever, smash the subscribe or follow or whatever the button is. So you'll know when we've got new streams. Um We will not have a Pulumi vision next week because I will be on an airplane going to uh Kucan, but the following Friday. So two weeks from tomorrow, Fridays are our usual Pulumi vision days. We will be uh doing Pulumi vision live from Kucan. Um And which will probably be if my math is right, means I will be doing it very early in the morning, I think. Or No, do I do that backwards? Actually, I need to look at it, make sure it's not during my talk, but whatever, it will be two weeks from tomorrow. Um And if you're gonna be a coupon, make sure you come and stop by and all that. But uh Luke, thanks for, for joining me on Pulumi Vision, everybody. Thanks for joining and we will see you on the.

---
