---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Infrastructure as Code Panel"
title: "PulumiUP 2022: Infrastructure as Code Panel"
meta_desc: |
    Senior Industry Analyst at RedMonk, Kelly Ann Fitzpatrick, will moderate this panel discussing the technical demands of building modern cloud appli...
url_slug: pulumiup-2022-infrastructure-as-code-panel
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Infrastructure as Code Panel"
  description: |
    Senior Industry Analyst at RedMonk, Kelly Ann Fitzpatrick, will moderate this panel discussing the technical demands of building modern cloud applications.
  sortable_date: 2022-06-13T01:00:09Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Vy9CCltOMeY
transcript: |
    Hello, everyone and welcome to Plu me up. Thank you so much for joining us today. My name is Kelly Fitzpatrick. I am a senior analyst at Red Monk, which is a developer focused industry analyst firm and I am delighted to have the honor of moderating this industry panel on infrastructure as code. Now, if you are at Pulumi up, chances are that you already know about infrastructure as code, but for those of you who are new to the term and maybe just dropped into Pulumi up at this session, infrastructure as code is the management of it infrastructure such as containers, V MS, uh network configuration through code which allows for avoidances such as versioning. We have an excellent group of experts with us today to talk about infrastructure is code and we are going to kick things off with a round of introductions. So we'll kind of go around to each of our panelists. I'll ask them to introduce themselves to talk a little bit about what infrastructure means to them and what motivates them to kind of do what they do every day. And Paul, we'll start with you. Hi, I'm Paul. I'm a Java architect at the Java platform group in Oracle. I'm actually really happy to be here. It's really interesting technology and I'm um I, I mostly work on designing the La Java language, the libraries and the compilers. So I write deep down in the stack but not, not above. But in prior lives, I worked at Cloud and its early startup days where infrastructure as code didn't really exist and we were flying by the seat of our pants, deploying stuff as as we went. And then I had an opportunity to work at Netflix where it got a far more sophisticated in terms of deployment where developers will build tools for developers, for productivity. And I think that's really interesting with regards to infrastructure at code here, it's a real big developer play. Um What motivates me is the ability to do something that has broad impact for developers. Java is used by many, many developers, even the smallest feature can have the the impact on the developer's life and make them more productive. So that's what really gets me going. Yeah, I like that. We're starting with something that developers may have heard of like Java. Um Nova, let's move on to you. Hello. Uh My name is Chris Nova. I am a senior principal engineer and architect at Tulio. Uh I'm our lead architect for our infrastructure platform. Uh And we were building everything on Kubernetes. Um What infrastructure means to me, I look at infrastructure as the sort of unfortunate or unnecessary tools and services that need to be supported and sustained in order to enable commerce, metaphorical to a bridge. It, it exists and it exists so that folks can do arbitrary commerce in, in a perfect world. It wouldn't necessarily have to be something we would have to build or design. It solves a very easy problem in a very complicated way. What motivates me is I think just that it's, it's complicated, it's hard, right? Infrastructure is engineering on expert mode, not only do we have to solve all the problems of an engineering team, but we have to do it on a budget and uh with, with uh a lot of complexity as we're typically solving for more than one use case at the same time. So the, the complexity and the uh the constraints is, is really why I'm here. I think complexity of that is definitely a term that I, I feel like we are gonna get back to at some point later later in this conversation. Um pat on to you. Yeah, thanks Kelly. Um So I am a newly mentored uh developer advocate at Kong um primarily focused in support and consulting prior to this in all things infrastructure. So hopefully this conversation uh is gonna be fun to dive into uh my experiences and my customers experiences there. I am uh experienced it Dell Canonical Red Hat. Uh And Kong before uh sorry, I should know how to introduce myself. Um Yeah, I experienced it Dell Canonical Red Hat and Kong um and what is infrastructure do you need? So uh all things from the boot sequence of the hardware to the layers that we put on top of that for infrastructure uh virtualization containerization, but also the the networking and all of the pieces that lead to doing useful work. Like Nova said with all of the hardware that we have in compute today. Um What motivates me. So I like to see people more successful today and tomorrow than they were yesterday. Um Finding that easiest path to a reliable and sustainable uh success is, is that that piece of the puzzle that I like to solve. I love that. And I, I know that you've only recently switched into your current role, but I feel like that's a good role for you based on what, what brings you here every day. Um And the last, but not least I hi everybody um super excited to be here. Thanks for having me. Uh I'm uh I'm the founder and CEO of Mona, which is a, a brand new company actually just create was created this month. Um I've been at Amazon before that left around uh February for about seven years. And I've built the AWS CD K at Amazon CD K for uh J SI I pro. Um So kind of um uh started the CD K um programming model which was based on an internal tool that uh uh we've been building uh at Amazon dot com. Um I'm still trying to figure out exactly what Mona is gonna do, I think uh to me and, you know, going back to like what motivate, what, what motivates me is um the, you know, is, is, is the, the beauty and the power of, of software and, and it's incredible ability to, to create things, you know, I imagine imaginary things that uh can change the world. And, and so my obsession has always been since I was like 10 years old or so a a around developer, technology developer experience um making that experience easy, fast and uh enabling software to become, you know, more and more powerful and more and more um enabling for our our lives. Um about infrastructure, I think like that's a really interesting question actually, like what is infrastructure to me? Because I feel like infrastructure has been kind of tainted in, in with the cloud. I feel I feel this terminology of infrastructure is something that we borrowed from the days of data centers and and networking devices and cables and power. And slowly this this term uh moved up the layers of our applications. And today to me, infrastructure is not just those lower, you know, level capabilities, but also resources that enable application development and co e-commerce and you know, business creation. And I think like that's one of the one of the challenges that we're seeing with, with, you know, the cloud today is this real confusion in the sense of the industry is like, what is infrastructure really like, what is, what are the boundaries? And I think we're probably gonna talk about that later. Yeah. Oh, thank you. Thank you all of you for being here today. Um Those were great introductions just so I don't come across as like cheating and skipping the hard part. Um I will say that infrastructure for me is something that I never want to have to deal with. So I'm one of the third people who are out there dealing it for dealing with it for me. So I mostly don't have to deal with it. Um And I do what I do every day. I'm an analyst II, I have a slightly different kind of job description than, than most of y'all because I get to talk to people like, like yourselves like every day, which is like great motivating factor for me. Um So moving on to some actual questions. Um if you call today's keynote, you know that Pulumi has a number of announcements around kind of different uh different like new features such as support for Java and all the kind of multi-language Aws X packages and um some announcements around in the Aws CD K or cloud development kit. Um So let's kind of start off talking about kind of technologies, stacks and frameworks that, you know, in your mind. Need to be supported in order for an infrastructure as code set up or platform to meet the needs of today's organizations. And this can be anything from specific languages to technologies such as containers to whatever kind of falls into your kind of definition of, of technology, stacks and frameworks. And I think Paul, we will start off this question with you. Ok, thanks Kelly. Um I'd just like to say that when you said um you didn't want to deal with infrastructure that really resonated with prior lives, dealing with infrastructure was extremely painful and stressful, especially when you're, you're, you're held to the wire, having to support customers and so forth like that, it really creates pressure on you. Um And I think one way to improve that is to leverage um language platforms to develop code that deploys how deploys effectively a computer with a storage network compute, to build your applications on top of. And I think language platforms are important to that. And obviously, I'm biased since I work on Java and Java has a, a huge enterprise footprint. So providing um API S in Java to the to do infrastructure as code, I think is hugely important and will um create a huge sort of pull for Java developers to build infrastructure. Because if I want to deal with infrastructure, I wanna deal with it, encoding Java and using a language. But I'm totally familiar with using all the tools that I'm familiar with debugging and so forth like that, all the ID and all the nice language constructs. I do not want to write, write a Yaml file, please. I've, I've had enough experience with BUILD tools with XML and Maven and that I do not want to write that. I want to write my java code to do these things. And so that is, is really intriguing and interesting to do that. And also putting my language hat on, I'd be interested to know what challenges are introduced by infrastructure's code on the language. So we can improve the language and libraries and platform to make that even better. I love that the idea of, of languages themselves evolving because they, they do, they have to where they die um in order to meet the the needs of what we're now kind of using them before. I think that's, I think that's great um your thoughts on this. So I'm 100% agree about the languages. I think um the complexity we've seen like uh uh incredible growth in complexity of, you know, the amount of infrastructure resources for lack of a better term infrastructure resources, the applications are using in order to build, you know, cloud applications. Um you know A A BS has been a really interesting experience because in a sense you kind of like live in the future in a way about especially when it comes to like cloud adoption and heavy use of cloud resources. And, and normal services at A W BS use 400 resources easy, you know, and that and those, you know, those applications are deployed across multiple regions and accounts. And, and so this complexity is something that in my experience, only programming languages can manage. Uh And this is basically what we've been building with programming languages in the past, you know, 50 years is like man imaging complexity through composition and abstraction and API design and surface area and you know, modules and libraries and testing. And, and so I totally agree about languages. Obviously CD K is like comes from that philosophy and Pulumi is coming from that philosophy. So plus one than languages, I'm like sensing a trend here. Although I have to say like the, the the announcement of like support for Java and Yama, like those are very tuned, like almost like very different in different audiences that uh you're kind of aiming, aiming for there. Uh How, how about your thoughts on, on what technologies or stacks or, or languages do you think are, are important? Yeah. Um So if I'm looking at uh accomplishing a goal for my organization or for myself, and I want to make that a repeatable success or a sustainable success, being able to see the tools and understand them is important. But having a, a an interface to express the entire picture is important. So in my infrastructure days, hands on metal, I spent a lot of time running commands over and over and over again and over time, slightly improving my sophistication with being able to achieve that success again or share that success with someone else. But my motivation for learning programming languages, so to pause and all point, um I am new to programming languages. And my motivation for that is because all of these even declarative models of uh achieving an outcome have individual uh constraints limiting my, you know, options for um dynamic and intelligent success. So getting into the new programmable I ac um has really glued together all of these different automation patterns and enabled me to hand things to my customers that gives them an intelligent outcome instead of just one very static outcome. Um So I, I see it touching anything that you need for a successful outcome for your organization. And I, I love your focus on the, this is what I need in order to give my customers because I think that like that's a perspective. Um not, not every developer has many, many do and all peep peep should, right. Uh Nova, what are your thoughts on, on meter technologies stacks uh or languages that you think are important? Um I'm gonna have a good answer. I'm also gonna have a difficult answer. Um One of my biggest criticisms as an architect is my inability to be prescriptive and, and offer a very specific concrete answer to a question. Uh When I look at what major technology stacks and frameworks and languages should be used. I, to be honest, I don't care what I care about is responsibilities. I want to know what the responsibility of a specific org or a team or a specific use case at AAA corporation is trying to solve. And then I let that responsibility and their need to adhere to that answer the question. Right? Like really doesn't really matter if we're using Go or if we're using rust or we, we're using Java, right? You know, at the end of the day, it all goes to a system call. So it's like, it's really just a flavor of like, what are your people more comfortable with? And if you have a, you know, 100 Java developers, I'm not gonna tell you to go, run, go and, and, and vice versa. Uh So really like the first question I like to ask is more importantly, you know, who's doing what, who's responsible for, what, who's responsible for building the platform, who's responsible for operating the platform? Those are two different jobs, right? You know, the folks that build your car, that you have parked in the driveway are not the same folks that drive your car every day, right? So having a clear understanding of who actually is responsible for doing what is really, what's gonna inform my answer here. We like to talk about Cooper Netti, we like to talk about, you know, cloud technologies and infrastructure as code and infrastructure as software. And, you know, when do we, when does static em stop and when does, like, turn complete programming language start? And like, it doesn't really matter what, what matters is that you're picking a tool that's appropriate for whatever problem you're trying to solve. So, um, I don't know, it's a good answer because, like, I really mean it, and I, I have built an entire career on being able to answer that questioned, well, depending on the circumstance, but like, I don't think there's like one single pill that we can just give people here that's gonna solve all their problems. Like I think in fact, really what I would like to see is better guidance on how to come up with the answer based off of your situation. Yeah. And that's, that is an excellent answer. I love the car metaphor. And I think like the people who built the car are not the people who maintain the car either, much less me who like, I barely can drive the car, right? So I think there's that, that metaphor can go like a whole bunch of different ways. And I think one thing you really get to as well is one thing we definitely seen in the industry or that I hear a lot is people trying to find um people who are skilled in doing different types of things. So like your point about like if you have job Java developers you're not gonna be like, I must go, we must go use, go now. Like, there, there are certain kind of constraints and um ways that kind of teams already are that need to be taken into account when you're looking at like, what, what they should do next and how they should do certain things and adopt certain technology. So that, you know, I thought that that's a great answer. Um, actually from, from everyone and I think that's a, a really good segue to the next question that I have because what has become a parents to me, just like, like talking with you all for just these, these few minutes is that we all come from like very different kind of backgrounds and are currently working on different types of teams and at different types of companies. Um So I was hoping that you all can talk a little bit about what your team or your organization is like and then how infrastructure fits into how like your or your team's like existing developer workflows kind of go and I think a lad will start with you on this one. Um OK. So it's, it's, it's really, it's a really interesting question I think because coming from Amazon, I think Amazon is kind of like at the extreme end of that spectrum, it's like every engineer at Amazon owns the entire stack, they know the, what the VPC is, they know what, you know, im roles are they know how a fleet is deployed, they know how VPC connections work and then they know all the resources above and eventually the business logic and the application and they also operate the application and become on call. So there's basically no separation of disciplines uh and across the, across the entire company, you know, both retail business and Aws. And that's a really interesting, you know, um tech, tech, the, you know, the engineering culture that exists at Amazon and I don't, and, and since I've left Amazon, I've actually had, you know, dozens of conversations with like, you know, other companies because I was like, I, I probably have like 80% of my view is blind spots at this point. So I, I need to like talk to people and I've seen that there's such an incredible range of, of organizational styles, especially around infrastructure and devops. And, you know, some companies have like centralized platforms, teams that basically build the entire platform and then give other teams, you know, application developers ability to build, you know, put their applications on uh those platforms. Some teams, some companies would spread out Sprinkle dev ups people across the entire company. You know, every team has their own dev ups person and that's becoming like their speciality. Some teams use a vertical uh platform that, that's a third party and then they just, you know, give their developers the ability. So it's, it's a really interesting question in the sense that I don't think that there's like a majority vote here, like there's all the range of options. And I think like there's pros and cons to, to all of them. The thing that strikes me really strongly, especially leaving Amazon in that sense is that I do think that there are that we have two distinct disciplines. When we're building software, we have engineers and we have developers and not all developers are necessarily engineers. You know, if you go to a bank, there's amazing developers there that are building tax calculation systems that are really not engineers, they're not interested in like how that network works, right? Like their, their domain is is tax calculation. And I think not respecting these two disciplines when we're, you know, building or organizations, technical cultures is, is a problem because it's not efficient, right? Like you're building, you're trying to shove, shove these two engineers into the same person. So I think Amazon's choice is interesting. It works really well in a, in a sense. So I'm trying to understand exactly what works and what doesn't. But uh yeah, that's my observation so far. I feel like we could have the rest of the session talking about like the difference between what we say when we say developers and engineers and oh my goodness that I feel like that has to be an entire other conversation that we have another time. Um But that's not the right term. You know, like I'm trying to even find the terms for that, you know, like maybe it's the application developers and like ops person people, it people. Oops, I don't know, like I think like we don't even have the right terminology for that. Yeah, and we're the tech industry is not very good about sticking with the same terminology either. So we, we use words in very, very interesting ways. One dichotomy I have heard of recent is like a application developers versus state platform developers which sometimes say stands in for kind of platform engineering or platform engineers. So I mean, there's that um but more on more on your your team. Um and how you know, developers kind of uh you know, deal with in infrastructure in it. Uh What what is happening at Kong. So um again, representing like support and consulting organizations where we plug into literally wherever a customer is at. Um I honestly think I would have answered this question different a year ago than I would today. So um when I was exclusively at the infrastructure layer and that that being, you know, your your platform, whether it's virtualization or containerization, but really what your app is running on top of and just building those pieces. I I saw it very black and white in a scenario that um s is building a platform and throwing it over the wall to the application developers. Um And then the applicant application developers are throwing very um sometimes obscure requirements over the wall so that s can develop that feature or develop a new platform that meets that need. Um And more recently, I have been spending more time in the middleware and seeing the actual convergence of the operations teams and the developers and where they bridge those gaps to create a useful product. Um And that's really changed how I view um it might be an overused term but get ops. So in, in con contrasting customers that achieve success at a high velocity versus um more traditional customers that I've worked with. Um You have a difference of everything is in meeting or you have everything is a get action, whether that's uh opening a get a bug or an issue or an issue for an enhancement or what have you. Um In one paradigm, you have calendars to address in another paradigm, you're working in a decorative way that is describing what you have today and what you want tomorrow in a language that what I from what I've seen, most ops and developer teams can find a way to mutually understand and communicate efficiently through. So um where does infrastructure fit into my organization is, is less relevant, I think for my answer than where does infrastructure achieve success and how for my customers. So I think that's the question that I really tried answering more there. No good answer. And again, the, the kind of focus on the success of your customers. Like I very much appreciate that. Um And Nova, you have been saying like in the green room that your understanding of the term organization is like very different than most people think of it. Um I mean, because you're at Twill, which, which uses it in certain ways. So, you know, what are your thoughts on this, on, on teams, organizations and where infrastructure fits in? Yeah. Uh speaking to everyone watching who has or currently works at Tulio. I, I'm sorry, we use words in special ways. I'm working on it. I'm doing the best I can. Um But really what, what I'm, what I was alluding to with what I said earlier was um I think uh when I look at a corporate, a company, a tech company like, like, you know, let's say the size of Twilio or, you know, another company that has profit focused applications that they support like Amazon is a good extreme example because they're so big and they're very focused on infrastructure but you know, Microsoft or, or sales force or, or Cisco, like everybody's got products, you know, we, we all have things that, that attempt to make profit and that is like one uh kind of unifying thing that, that we can agree on in our economies of Silicon Valley here. Um Infrastructure breaks that mold just like full stop. Infrastructure is a cost center, infrastructure is a liability like we are, we are a necessary evil that in a perfect world would not exist. And like, I've kind of made my peace with this like ugly truth. And when I look at organizational structure, I think that infrastructure typically reflects that really like, it's very obvious, especially at, at these larger companies, that infrastructure is the small, it's like organizational center that is the core of the rest of all these like very exciting profit centers that surround it. And right down in the middle is like, how do we um manage our infrastructure at scale? So a lot of the tools and technologies are a reflection of this macro shape, right? Like how do we do things generically so that this profit center and that profit center can like uh take advantage of the same pieces of technology here. So when I say org, really what I look at is like each ORG is a use case as far as infrastructure is concerned. I also look at um the sort of uh like interesting economic relationship between everything is like profit centers, job is to go make profit and infrastructure's job is to reduce cost, right? So like we pay for ourselves in different ways and like there's different paradigms because of that and because of that economic relationship. So when, when you try to build quality infrastructure for these, these different consumers of, of your infrastructure, you know, really the question isn't, how do I do it the right way? It's how do I do it in a cost effective way that's gonna work for as many people as possible. Right. And that changes the game, right? That's why it's infrastructure is just fundamentally different than like applications. It's because we're just operating under different rules, it's just a different game. Um Anyway, this is why I get excited. And when I look at organizational structure, I am like, you know, we're kind of on the defensive versus where like our consumers are on the offensive. And I think that my tools, my decisions, my technologies, the type of people we hire the type of work we do all of that is a consequence of this macro shape that I see at, at these larger tech companies. Yeah. And I love that kind of like just like very kind of birds eye view of all of that as opposed to, you know, getting into the, the, you know, very much kind of specifics. Um And Paul, what are your, what are your thoughts on um on this? Just the observation on categorization of developers. I would think that um someone who writes their log for ac pu probably thinks of me as an application developer. So I'm looking up and I'm also looking down and I think everyone's looking up and looking down and there's a whole stack of software that people are depending on each other at various parts which require various different skills. And one of those is is maintaining infrastructure at, at various levels on the stack. And at the point at which um you've effectively got um sort of Lego bricks and you're writing software to connect those LEGO bricks into sort of a um a high level machine. Well, not just one machine with ac pu but a big machine that's controlled by software and configured and it may be dynamic. It's not something that's static and grows and shrinks and expands as the requirements of the applications are needed. So it's, it's really a next, the next and the economies of scale. Um So you can, you can just shut it down and not pay and then build it up as, as, as you, as you see fit. And that's like really um I hate to use the word elastic computes, but that's what comes to mind when I think about it, but it is just configurable compute and we're abstracting the wave and notions of networks of uh of storage and CPU and being able to fit them together as needed. GP UCPUF PGA perhaps um um RD MA networks and so forth like that. So it's, that's where I see software to enable more software and more machines as you need it. So it's just a sort of progression of the industry. And I think from my point of view, I do a lot of work on my laptop and, and, and, and, and deep thinking on my laptop. I'm lucky enough to do that. But then I was thinking, well, we have an infrastructure team in the Java Platform group who's responsible for deploy, making sure the builds work, making sure all the tests and performance tests, unit test, infrastructure testing, functional testing. And if that thing goes down, uh we stop because we can't, we can't progress. It's really important. It's kind of the mission critical for us because we're, you know, a lot of engineers aren't working, that's an expense on the, on, on, on, on what we do so well, of course, we can do other things but it stops, it stops critical work going forward. Like if we have a security fix coming through, we need to get through. If that's down, then we're blocked and these, these people deploy, build up a miso um sort of cluster and enable all this. But the, the, the it's quite demanding and the broad um rare machines we test on for the platform. All architecture is old and new and so forth like this. And then I've been working with people who've been deploying on Oracle's computer infrastructure and deploying bare metal machines and want to want to test Java processes interconnected over in band or RRD MA. And how do they deploy that infrastructure quickly and then tear it down after they've done and deploy it back up again and code that up. It's, it's not easy to do at all. And we, we got to enable that uh enable them to do it faster and more accurately and more efficiently so they can get their job done. Good answer. And also as you were talking about when infrastructure is not working, like a people cannot do their jobs. But b it's also somebody's job to get it back up and running. And as having some flashbacks to previous life, I think like, absolutely. Um So I wanna, I want to shift gears a little bit and talk about a trend that we are seeing is this kind of increasing introduction of abstract as a way to reduce toil and to maybe reduce some of the complexity that we're kind of seeing uh more and more in the building and running software. And I think all of you have talked about about this, like they touch on it a little bit. Um What are some kind of common abstractions for infrastructure that uh make your life easier or if they were to exist because they haven't been invented yet might make your life easier and we'll start with uh the lad. Um So, yeah, I think it, it, it connects a little bit to uh what we discussed earlier about programming languages. And the fact that basically the the the basic tool for managing complexity and programming languages is decomposition, right? Like it's taking a problem breaking it down to smaller pieces and then combining them together into higher level, uh higher level components and then combining those together and it again and again and basically the entire software world is based on that premise. And I think what we've, what we've been seeing it with the, you know, infrastructure and introduction of infrastructure as code. And then in introduction of intra infrastructure as software is just a repeat of what happened in the traditional software world rather is, hey, we've got all this complexity. Let's let's use, you know, abstraction in order to manage this complexity. Um One thing that, you know, we've been seeing around infrastructure complexity abstractions, that's I feel is interesting and is, is, is in a sense, unsolved problem in a way is that these abstractions sometimes break when you deploy them into the, into the cloud, right? And so you have these attractions, whether they're peform modules or Pulumi components or CD K constructs and they all look shiny and nice and you have these API S and so, you know, you know, non leaky surface areas. Um but then you go and you deploy them to a cloud provider or to codes and suddenly you're left with like the Lego bricks, right? Like you're going into a Lambda console and you see, you know, 20 different LAMBDA functions. And some of some of these LAMBDA functions belong to this component and some of these LAMBDA functions belong to these components. And so I think like one of the challenges or, or maybe the barriers in the infrastructure as code or software space to kind of like blow up in terms of abstraction is we have to solve that production problem. Because if we're not gonna solve that production problem, we end up in this situation where abstractions leak once we deploy them. And then, you know, people who are trying to operate the system don't have a back reference to like where did this resource come from? Right. And so I feel like what we're seeing today in the Abs in the, you know, infrastructure abstraction space is just the first layer in a sense of abstractions above the basic resources. And we've, you know, when the AWS uh launched construct hub last week uh last year at the end of last year, which is this like website of, of constructs for sharing um infrastructure abstractions basically uh for and for A W BS and for terraform. Uh And as uh the keynote said that I think like is gonna be able to support these constructs today. So I think like, we've got the foundation for the ecosystem of, you know, softer based cloud abstractions. Uh And we're seeing some really interesting stuff there, but I think like it's gonna blow up once we, we're able to really solve that uh production leakage problem, which I think is an interesting problem to solve an interesting way to think about it, you know, as well. Uh cat your thoughts on abstractions. Yeah. So uh if I'm looking for uh a tool that abstracts away tasks that make my life harder. Um I usually start out by seeing how they apply to the most uh difficult common denominators of any customer that I've worked with. Um Usually that boils down to fintech and defense uh organizations as you know, they have any number of constraints for security for whether it's, you know, disconnected running in the middle, on, on systems in the middle of the ocean. Um And if I find a pattern that really enables success in those extreme environments, usually, what I also find is that uh reduces friction for other more common uh use case or even more um agile and younger organizations. So uh in, in, in the real world, I see the biggest pain points around uh data distribution uh for whether, whether that's dependencies, databases, what have you. Um And either very declarative um programmatically understanding what you need and tra traversing the, the path to get that into your production. Um So that could almost be improved by programmable data where the data itself tells you what it is um or uh declaring methods of version. Mm I'm I'm gonna jump into kind of the next piece of that. It feeds back into the the data distribution piece. So uh the other biggest pain point that I see is uh release, orchestration, and release update, orchestration. So once you've accomplished your first um day in P prod, you, you start thinking about OK. What is my next version of prod going to be. And because the stack uh is so so deep and each layer of the stack is very broad horizontally. I mean, I think Paul really eloquently explained some of the, the fact that he has uh a meso clusters that are required for releasing a patch to Java if there's a CV E. And so if you look at how deep and wide each layer of the stack gets um version control and maintenance of all of the versions involved in releasing a a production application are I I think some of the most difficult parts of uh infrastructure and maintaining infrastructure. Um So being able to very carefully declare all of your dependencies and versions and move all of your dependencies in per uh through a software supply chain. Um Those are the two things that I see as the biggest gaps and most difficult tasks at this time. Yeah, thank you for that. Um And it, I I think I really like your idea of if it can meet or work for these kind of very difficult use cases, like what can you do for those kind of more, more every new ones like that type of angle as well because we don't often think about the most difficult use case or the use cases. We think about, you know, we think about that every day, but you can learn a lot from those edge use cases. Um Know your thoughts on abstraction. Uh such a good question. So um abstractions are for humans. Full stop, right. I'll just stop there. Um There, as far as I can tell in the history of computer science and the history forever, this is a very simplified view. There's only two reasons you would ever abstract anything. And it's either to decouple to computer systems or to uh create a better user experience for a human. So there's some like nuance to this when you get into like OK, well, we have two computer systems that we try to connect in a human like way. And we need to decouple these two systems as like a like a reverse exercise. So abstractions are useful there. But again, the only reason that problem exists in the first place is because we tried to make a computer speak to a human. Um And I also look at it as uh you know, we're presenting a computational layer to a human and, and that's where an abstraction also becomes useful. So we didn't have human, we wouldn't have abstractions as far as far as I can tell. Um I, I look at the problem with orgs that I kind of talked about earlier with like the macro design of like we have an infrastructure org in the center of all of these profit centers. Um If you were to use the word domain to describe each one of those responsibilities within a corporation, you know, this is, this is a nonprofit center that, you know, makes money in this way. And here's another one that makes money in that way. Uh Each one of these domains has a unique responsibility and each one of the domains needs to answer the same questions potentially in different ways, right? And this is, this is like the nature of all Kubernetes cloud native and all the stuff we talk about every day is every domain needs observ ability. However, this domain needs to solve observable for these specific things and that one needs to solve it for a different reason. But regardless, we need this problem solved here. This domain means logging that domain needs observably. This domain means networking infrastructure tries to glue all that together and find the boundary. So really, I don't really want to talk about abstractions very often in my day job. When we do talk about abstractions, I usually just try to get down to what computer system are you trying to obfuscate? Uh What I really want to talk about is boundaries. Where does this Org's responsibility boundary stop and where does that Org's responsibility boundary start? And how much of, of this shit is respon or are we responsible? And how much of it is responsible on that end? And then I think that's where you get the these clean like systems designs. Uh do these patterns from where it's very obvious where Kuti starts and stops. And it's very obvious where this http API starts and stops and, and what the interface and expectations, you know, that's a big responsibility for an architect, right? Being able to say this is infrastructure and ultimately you as an active team are gonna be responsible for security scanning your images or responsible for configuring your network or contrary wise, that's my responsibility. You should be obfuscated from it. My suggestion here is to make infrastructure as boring as possible. I would say the big anti pattern here is we don't want infrastructure to be configurable. We don't want people tweaking config options all day long. We don't want people changing it. It should be a bridge, it should be boring. The same reason that folks don't get in their cars, drive up to a bridge and go like tweak the dial on the side of the bridge and say, like I want to drive a little closer to the water. Today is the same reason we shouldn't have configurable infrastructure. It should just get you from point A to point B and you should not talk about it. You shouldn't look at it, it shouldn't be attractive, it shouldn't be beautiful. You don't want to take pictures with it. You should just drive across it and get on with your day. I never want to be responsible for a bridge. That's like a career goal of mine to never be, never be in charge of in terms of bridges. Um And Paul your thoughts on abstraction uh it's such a broad, deep question um or expand on what Nova said on abstractions that we have to have abstractions to understand the world because otherwise it's too complicated to think about. It's too, it just doesn't fit in our heads. So we have to create analogies and metaphors. And often we talk in metaphor when we build new abstractions and that's when new terms come up. And anyone who's outside of that world is, it's almost incomprehensible when people are speaking. And you even find that across organizations that are talking about the same things that are done, invented the same things and come up with different terms for it. And then you have to sort of uh merge things together and, and then collapse those terms to say, oh, we're talking about the same thing we have that even in our organization, I'm swimming in abstractions every day, every day and up and down the stack and trying to understand what these are. I think um it reflects for the programming language platform as a mechanism to build abstractions by humans. And one abstraction is to try and um provide software to um deploy infrastructure or manage infrastructure. And I think embedding that into the abstraction building mechanism is actually quite liberating because you can use all of the same mechanisms that as a developer you can use today. Um for it, you're building your own abstractions on top of those of infrastructure and build libraries and modules and so forth like this and things will start going up the stack. If, if, if Pulumi have got this right with the right API S and the right level of abstraction, it will enable developers to build on top their own mechanisms and be creative in ways that they, they don't expect. And that's effectively what we do at my job. At my level, we find the, the sort of the, the, the primitives for the future we want and let others build on top of that. And the important part of that is finding the primitive and ex and providing a story to developers so they can understand what that primitive does. Oh, I love that. You kind of took an abstract, you started with a very abstract view on distraction and that was very fitting. Um So we, we are getting to the uh kind of the end of our time and I want to jump to a kind of like lightning round question to kind of wrap up. Um If you were to advise someone who is either early in their career or considering getting into a career in tech as either a developer or an engineer, whichever, whichever one of those uh terms you want to think of. Um what skills do you think they should know in order to be successful, what should they be studying and or what other advice would you give them? And Kat will start with you? Thank you. This is one of my favorite topics. Um My own adventure into tech uh started out in a library book. I, I usually visited the, the STEM section which was a uh a very limited selection of books and in the middle of Oklahoma, um when I was a kid and I stumbled on a real three book and it had scratched up C DS in the back. And I eventually got those after weekends of trying, working on a discarded computer that my parents had in the garage. Um That's my own adventure. I can't imagine getting into tech today when it's so much more complex than just getting one system working. So if I do advise someone when they're curious about technology and making a profession out of it, the first thing I ask them is, can they imagine something and then figure out how to make it happen and it can be really, really simple. So some people are comfortable installing the browser. Some people aren't, those might seem like trivial tasks to a lot of us that are in tech. But uh if it comes to, can you, you make a new Macbook, for example, as comfortable to work on is the one that you've been using for the last three years. And if you think about it in terms of this is foreign to me, so it's scary, then all that it boils down to is can you teach yourself the, the bridge building skills to get to the destination that you want and can you face it without being afraid uh And without caving into your biases. So if you think that picking one technology because it was promoted um by someone you like as being an obvious choice, that's a fun way to get started. But if you want to do things more than one way, just to understand if you're doing things the best way, can you encounter your biases? Maybe I don't like Red Hat or I don't like canonical, but can you look and see why? Uh and whether or not that's a valid reason for picking a bridge or, or a type of brick to build that bridge with? So um break things down into small pieces if it's of a foreign idea and it's scary, make it really small and see if you can work on and chip away at that one step today, tomorrow, the next few days, however long it takes and then start building a habit of successfully achieving the vision that you set out with. I love that. It makes it all seem so much, so much less overwhelming. Um I'm gonna, I'm gonna throw our, our order to the wind and um Paul, I'm gonna ask you to go next because I feel like you've had to go and last for like the past like five questions. So what advice, what advice do you have for folks who want to get into this business, I wish you said last. So I could think about it more, but I'll go ahead. Oh, this is a um curiosity and persistence. Um I think you have to be curious and you have to challenge yourself, but also you need to be persistent to not give up and because sometimes it can be hard. Um This is quite challenging sometimes. And so I think to help that you have to find the the right people you're comfortable with and they're comfortable with you and, and, and go on a effectively a journey and find the right people you're comfortable with. Who can mentor you. I think finding a good mentor is, is, is, is can be quite important and it may not be something that's explicit, it may not be an explicit mentor mentee relationship, but someone that you can relate to and you can um sound out ideas on and so it, it, you know, sometimes it can be, you just hit on something by chance uh that you enjoy and it resonates with you. And if something like that happens and you're lucky enough for that to happen, I I would grab hold of it and run with it if given the opportunity, that's my thinking behind it. And good mentors are hard to find. So when you find a good one, they try to keep them. Uh No, but what advice would you have for, for new? Yeah. Um I'm gonna take this opportunity to plug the new book I just published. Um, I, I, I've been, I've been super obsessed with this topic for the past 6 to 9 months and II, I had gotten so obsessed with it. I finally took a pen to paper and wrote a lot of this down. Um, my big takeaway here was, uh, tech has more to do with the economy than I thought it ever would have and I wish somebody would have told me this a lot earlier. Uh I would have if I could go back. The one thing I would, I would yell and scream at my younger self is Nova your, your career, your job, tech is a vehicle to retirement is a job. And ultimately, it exists in an economy. And ultimately that economy, if you're in the United States is capitalism, which means you are a consequence of the labor market and a corporation's job is to extrapolate more value out of you than you than they get in return. And it's, it's kind of slimy and it makes you feel pretty bad. I would have protected myself differently. I would have managed my situation a lot differently. And I would have, I would have taken a lot of a different approach to like how to like, how do I manage my money and how do I manage my relationship with my paycheck? It sounds like a very grown up like, hey, you know, save your money kind of answer. But, um, you know, after working at some of the larger phone companies and getting burnt a few times, like, man, I wish I would have, I would have spent three or four months just researching basic economic principles and understanding where I fit into the big machine before II, I started this undertaking. Yeah, I love it. Like tech is not in a vacuum and, oh my goodness, it's definitely not in a vacuum when it comes to money, right? And this is why I think about infrastructure the way I do, right? Like we're, we're a liability. Like most corporations don't want us to be there. And that, that changes a lot of how I approach my day job, right? Like walking into the office knowing that like it just explains things, it just makes things a lot easier for me to kind of take in stride. So excellent. And it had your thoughts on, on folks thinking about getting into this industry, get involved in open source. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, I think, I think, I think it's the best find mentors build something real. See how you actually work as a developer, contribute to documentation, contribute in any way you want open bugs, contribute to documentations, send pull requests, comment on other people's pull requests, um connect with the community, meet friends, I think like that's a great way to, yeah, you build up a CV effectively through that way and it's often a way to hire, you know, I love it. Well, we are, we are a little past time, but I think it's ok because we have such good things, good things to talk about. Um This has been the Pulumi up industry panel on infrastructure as code and I would like to thank all of our panelists today for their, their brilliant insights um into everyone else and thanks for joining us and enjoy the rest of the conference.

---
