---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "eslint plugin, C# static analyzer and more | September 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
title: "eslint plugin, C# static analyzer and more | September..."
meta_desc: |
    The September 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse!
url_slug: eslint-plugin-c-static-analyzer-more-september-2022-monthly-contributor-community-meeting
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "eslint plugin, C# static analyzer and more | September 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
  description: |
    The September 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse! ‚ñ∫  Agenda notes:  https://github.com/pulumiverse/.github ‚ñ∫ Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  ‚û°Ô∏è  eslint plugin: https://github.com/pulumi/eslint-plugin-pulumi ‚û°Ô∏è  C# static analyzer: https://www.pulumi.com/blog/csharp-static-analyzer/  üìë Chapters: 00:00 Intro and agenda 01:23 Topic: Update from the Pulumiverse board 15:27 Topic: eslint plugin 19:04 Topic: C# static analyzer 20:20 Closing
  sortable_date: 2022-09-14T17:52:16Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Dk9JHYam4lM
transcript: |
    All right folks, welcome to our third monthly community contributor meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumi Verse. Uh My name is Laura Santa Maria. I'm a developer advocate at Pulumi and I am your moderator though. I'm not necessarily gonna be the one talking all the time. I'm mostly just here to help make sure everyone is heard and keep the conversation rolling. Um Please do remember that we do have a code of conduct and this meeting does fall underneath that in short, be excellent to one another. If you would like to read more about that code of conduct, please do head to the agenda. You'll find it linked at the very top. On that note. Um If you are uncomfortable being on video or on audio, please do mute your video, mute your sound because this will be posted publicly to youtube. And you're welcome to leave me a note in the chat and I will read it out for you if you would like to participate. That being said, I don't have a ton of announcements, but I hear that we're gonna talk a little bit about the Pulumi Verse board meeting today and uh why don't, we just kinda get started and I will let uh y'all start giving me a little bit of an update on where we are with the polymerase. Hey, hello, everyone. So talking about Pulumi Verse. Um So first of all, my name is Ringo. I also work for Pulumi, but I also wear a double hat, meaning uh together with Simon, we are two of the board members of Pulumi Verse. And yesterday we had uh a board meeting. Um the, we had a write up um while we had our uh board meeting. Uh now that was in a Google document and it's still to be converted into a markdown file which we commit publicly um a in our data organization. So for all the transparency around this, uh but let us uh maybe go over uh what was discussed. Um First of all, we had, let's say a longstanding pull request um around adding a contribution guideline document. Um Over time, there were some uh talks about it. Now, eventually, yesterday, we had it confirmed and approved. So we have a organization wide contribution document. Um And we have an additional uh ticket already for some minor modifications to it uh which we discussed also during um uh meeting. It's more around whether or not something could be seen as a rule rather than a guideline. So we want to make a clarification around that. Um Now, one of the topics of that contribution is that we would favor to work with uh conventional commits. And um I've never worked with such a setup. So Simon had and I asked if later on he could uh do maybe a demo on his experience with these tools. So that also so passed by um as input for further setup, probably uh on how we can uh with the further setup, meaning that we can also support the people maintaining code under the Pulumi Wings with such a setup so that not everyone has to learn it from scratch. Um Then it was a while uh since we had our um board meeting. So it was a bit of a call on my side to uh reiterate maybe on what we want Pulumi verse to be or to become. Yeah. Uh It was a refresher in A I to say a bit. Um And I think it was still a bit in the likewise and, and what we all had in mind meaning that this is uh to become in, first of all, a community of people. Yeah. Um a community working together on um things which of course are related to Pulumi um with the intention that things which come under the umbrella of Pulumi verse that these are well maintained and um well maintained, meaning that we definitely have those minimum requirements of two maintainers for a certain piece so that things don't become still. Uh And that eventually, if an update is needed that such an update to one piece of technology becomes available. Um That's actually what as board members we want to advocate and promote and you will more and more see us doing that, that we will have a call for additional maintainers that we will probably report on where and in which area we are still missing maintainers, et cetera. So that's where we will then create a backlog of tasks for us to do around building up the community. Um And can I just add Ringo that there is um we're, we're looking for everyone that can contribute you, right. This is Pulumi verse is meant to be and I think Pulumi put it nicely. Uh Now uh that it's a community thing. That's what it is, first of all, first and foremost, it's not just uh place where we have providers, right? It's not about repositories and providers and the technical stuff. That's just what we do as a community, but we have to think about the community. And so everyone, like I brought examples during the board meeting that we have uh an, right? She made a ma mascot and she made a logo for Pulumi Verse. That is a contributor, right? So everyone who, everyone who feels like they just want to give to this community and be a part of it is welcome to do so. So that's what we're really important for us to say. One of the easy contributions, for example, is to the awesome Pulumi, which is also under the Pulumi Verse organization. So even a contributing a link to a blog article um is definitely helpful because these awesome uh the different awesome lists uh are typically scanned by a lot of people uh coming to new technology. Yeah. Um and maybe not even adding a new link but helping out with uh maybe restructuring it a bit for easier access, simple things, but very, let's say low profile, you don't need necessarily a lot of coding skills around this, but it definitely helps out for people to find um maybe a better structured, awesome list. Yeah. Um Few examples. Um So also we are going to um kick off more community meetings around Pulumi verse as well um which we will combine, let's say uh in a single call with uh the board meeting. So sort of start off with a small board meeting and then let all the contributors um jump in and see where things can be uh done. Uh Pe I also asking questions around uh yeah, towards each other, whatever. So really an open uh get together to see uh where we can make progress on things. Um So we will start off with the first one and see from there how uh what the repetition will be at the time frame. Um Maybe also the, the moment during the day to make sure that we can have a good attendance around that as well. Um But that will be planned um and also discussed during that first call. So probably, maybe the first call is not the optimal moment for everyone, but I hope we can hear it from certain people if we need to reschedule to other days, other day and the week, another moment during the day and so on, we have already learned that time zones is a real hassle. Right. Yeah, we, the, the plumber organization has, uh the board in itself have people from New Zealand, right? Uh And, and Europe and U and us. So, so already someone waking up really early in the morning. Indeed. Oh And we also decided half, I think maybe we decided, I don't know how this gonna pan out. But so the ones that is in the mid of day, sort of the one with most energy based on time zone is the one hosting the uh community efforts. So let's see how that pans out. But yeah, we're gonna uh probably gonna give out the date for when this meeting will be and the ones that's gonna be sort of specially invited to this. Uh or uh we're gonna make sure that attends are the people who are sort of actively contributing to Pulumi verse uh at this point. And also like the first nice really gathering of everyone has taken a, taken an effort to, to join the community. Yeah, it's gonna be good. So I have a question for you. Um As someone who has dealt with lots of time zones all around the world and other scenarios. Do you think you'll be like, switching out different times or you think it will always be the same time? Because I've always found it helpful, like, if every like three months you switch so that somebody doesn't have to be the one getting up early and, you know, kind of move around so that the time zone moves around. What's your plan on that? Do you know yet? I think we know in a way. Ok. We, we, we're probably gonna move it around like you said. So. Yes. Yeah, that's also my assumption that that will become the case. Yes. So, um to continue on what we discussed, uh we also had, um, let's say, uh some technical things that uh we discussed. Uh, first of all, uh we do have a number of providers under our umbrella for which generated as DK packages, uh need to be published. That means that we have accounts, we have credentials and uh we got a free subscription to one password to manage that. Yeah. Um For, if you don't know about that, for open communities, there is a plan on one password that you can sign up for. Uh you get a free team subscription. Uh Now they also have a slack channel uh that you can sign up for and I discussed a certain use case that I wanted to create. Uh, and use more teams, a groups, the team's concept in one password and all of a sudden, even without asking, they upgraded us to a business edition. So works. So if it's of interest to other communities you are in, I can post the link afterwards for maybe the, the notes or something. Laura. Uh There is a github project where you can uh create a pull request if you want to subscribe to that uh service. Uh So I'll pass it on uh to you. Uh But then uh we discussed how we would leverage also the use of uh one password to make sure that for example, um provider uh maintainers could have credentials to test, for example, the publishing of these packages without having uh them without the need to provide them the master keys. Um And that's how we could structure then one password to support such a scenario. Um Also we have the Pulumi Twitter account. Um I'm looking into uh also giving the board shared access to that Twitter account. Um And uh yeah, I still have to look around. I mentioned I had a paid uh suite uh plan, but it doesn't seem to offer additional team members so far. Um So I'm looking around there will be a, a solution coming definitely. Um but not at this very moment. So Ringo, just so that, you know, because I've done this quite a bit. Um If you use the um tweet deck, you can actually give people access to it through Tweet deck without necessarily handing out keys. So that might be one way to give people shared access. They just have to access it through Tweet deck um just for Twitter and it's free. Um We use that a lot on some of the de state organizations I've been part of. So reach out to me if you need more information, I will happily share more links. Thank you. Um I think that's about it. Uh What we discussed um in, in global, the, the write up as mentioned will come publicly. Um Simon, I don't know if I missed something and if I did, please step in, I think you summarized it. Well. All right. Thank you. So that was it for me for an update on the Pulumi verse. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for the update. If anybody has any questions or, or other comments, you're welcome to either unmute or leave a note and chat. We'll, we'll take a second, seeing head shaking and thumbs up. So I think we're probably pretty good here. Um With that, we don't really have a ton of topics to talk about other than that update. So unless anybody wants to propose a topic right now, I'm going to let people get off early but it, they have something they love to talk about. Yeah, let's talk about it. So uh Povia created a um es linked plug-in just recently, right? Have everyone seen that. Yeah, this is OK. So if you're writing in typescript, uh that's essential here or javascript maybe as well, now you can create. Now, now you can add a um es link rule and it's really basic right now. But what it gives you is a, um it makes sure that you are putting the interpolation on uh things that you have imported, which is really, really, really, really cool. So, and this is a good starting point. There's probably going to be added a lot of rules that are very specific to Pulumi. But right now this is very early early on, right? This, this code is thrown together. So I think uh people should try it, install it and use it so that we can um uh you know, improve on it. Yeah, that's super cool. Thanks for filling us in. Yeah, one note on that, I don't know, the feasibility of this is, I don't know too much about writing ESL plugins, but it would be really cool if there was a plug in to let you know if you haven't parented a child resource when you are creating a new custom resource as that has happened before, doesn't really make a big functional change. But would be any if that was possible? Maybe I'll look into it. Yeah. And you can also just open issue set, right? We need a backlog for this as well. It's awesome. The fun thing that just to give you a little story on this. This was an issue that was created long, long ago and I think the original poster don't even worry about it anymore. It's such, it's, it's become sort of a very old issue. And then me and a friend of mine, a colleague of mine, Martin, we started hacking a little bit on this, like none of us just like you. Uh Sean haven't written any ES link rules lately or at all, honestly. So we took a stab at this. Uh we created sort of this hacky function that we have now been using for. I would say a better part of a year. And Martin, he wanted to get down into the details of it, make it better before he published it, right? And pushed, pushed the code to a public report story and uh I've been trying to get him to do it right for a long time. And all of a sudden uh uh Pulumi creates their own repository and does just what we wanted to do for so long uh published it. And in a much better form this, uh the one that Pulumi has created is um even has the fix so you can do sling dash dash fix and it will fix your problems automatically. So, really, really nice, super cool. All right, excellent. Um If you could send me a link to that after we're done at some point, I'll make sure it gets into the notes so that people have it and I'll make sure it also ends up on the youtube video down in the description for those of you watching. I will make sure it gets linked there. So. Oh, perfect. Thank you. I will grab that link out of the Zoom Chat and I'm gonna put it in here and I will make sure if for those of you listening uh that I will get that all posted up where it needs to go to compliment on um A for the javas and typescript developers to complement if people are doing a in need of something similar for dot net. One of our colleagues at Pulumi created the C# static analyzer, which also does a bit of the same. Now if you have a component for example and you forgot to parent your child resources, it also gives you the same support. Very cool. Yeah, this is nice, sweet. I will also put that in the notes and again, that will also get on to the link for the youtube video. Very cool. By the way, for those of you listening, if this is something that you're really interested in and you want to build it for another language or anything like that, just a hint that maybe that might be a something to contribute to as well and you can come join our next community meeting and talk about it. So get some help, start playing around with it. It would be great. We welcome that. Awesome. Anybody else have any last tidbits? If not, I'm gonna give you all about 30 minutes back. Have a wonderful day, everyone. Awesome. Well, thank you all for joining us this round and uh we'll see you next month for the next monthly contributor meeting. If you're interested in joining us. Come on and join the Pulumi Slack. I'll leave a link down in the description and you can find us in the contribute channel or the Pulumi Verse channel or any of the other channels. Just come find us and we will be there. So, thank you all for joining us and y'all have a lovely day. Thank you. Hi, everyone. Goodbye.

---
