---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Build a Workshop"
title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Build a Workshop"
meta_desc: |
    In this episode of PulumiVision, Staff Developer Advocates Kat Cosgrove and Matty Stratton will create a new workshop for Pulumi live before your v...
url_slug: pulumivision-kat-matty-build-workshop
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Build a Workshop"
  description: |
    In this episode of PulumiVision, Staff Developer Advocates Kat Cosgrove and Matty Stratton will create a new workshop for Pulumi live before your very eyes! Join us for some fun "behind the scenes" action, and give your feedback as we work on it!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-17T09:07:47Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/bz87uEKaLlc
transcript: |
    Wait, you're in just like bullshit for a few minutes until, hey, how much am I allowed to swear? I don't know. I would, I would play like PG 13 rules, I think. OK, so I can say fuck once that didn't count because nobody's gonna cut, that didn't come. I'm changing my, my thing. So it is uh like the same as yours. What? Oh That's why I, oh my God, I had the, I forgot I had the youtube live in another tab somewhere and all of a sudden I'm like, why am I getting Echo? And it was because it had it open and it just started playing um oh OK, let's see here. Let's go to um So that's where, so we can do this, this old, that's uh I don't know if that looked any different but um people start chatting. I have quote. Oh This is, this is the combined. Although you can't chat in here. I don't think you have to. I think if you and rest, if you, if you, there's a way you can like connect it to your Twitch. So when, then you can type in the chat and it'll know who you are or you could just open the Twitch. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is, this, will, this chat is actually the combined chat from youtube and, um, like what you're seeing overlaid here is the combined chat between the two and I kind of wanted to play with to see how this looks, uh, when people join us, which they better because if they don't, I'll cry and it won't matter because there won't be anybody here to see it. I know but it also mess up your makeup that you're working on. I don't. Yes. Well, no, no, no because I'm good at putting my makeup on and I use high quality products. So uh and you know, I have freaking uh eyelash extensions so I don't have to wear mascara and that's like that's the biggest offender of uh crying your make up. Oh, there's people on Twitch. Well, they're not chatting yet but they're viewing. I wonder why our view count is not right and re stream. There's so is nobody's here but ok, that's cool. I, I mean there's three people. Ok. But still OK, but that's fair but still we should probably start doing something. Hello? All right. So welcome to Pulumi Vision. Oh my God. Now it says seven. OK, cool. All right. So we've been, we've been sitting here like we don't have to do anything yet. Nobody's watching this damn thing. And y'all have been sitting here like um Hello, you could type in the chat and then we went out. Um, so, uh, it's time for Pulumi Vision, uh, which normally we do every Thursday, but this is a special episode known as Maddie and Kat had some work to do and we're gonna do it in the open. Um, and, uh, this is prep for Cat. When is this workshop? We should know. This workshop is next week. It is on the 24th um at 10 a.m. Pacific. I'm gonna put it. Yeah. So if you want to take the workshop that we are building, um and I'm gonna put a link in the um whatever you call that thing. Uh the chat, chat, the chat uh that's the link to where the red is for all that stuff. Um But cool. Hey, oh look at all these friends. All right. Awesome. So anyway, we're gonna start building on this workshop and uh don't, don't tell me. No, no, we're good. And um yeah, so we're gonna basically sit down. Uh Kat wants you to sort of explain like the content of this workshop and what we're starting with and what we're gonna try to create. Yeah. So uh I would like to know because he would like to know. Yeah. So we are building um uh an infrastructure is code fundamentals workshop and we are doing this in a specific way for a specific reason and that Pulumi has uh this, this thing called Pulumi learn, which has a series of like self directed learning pathways to help learn Pulumi. And uh we kind of wanted uh the workshops that we give as developer advocates to be more consistent with those learn pathways so that workshops are effectively doing the learn pathway, but they're doing the learn pathway with uh a Pulumi developer advocate there to help you through it, talk you through it. And then that way, maybe, you know, if, if something goes wrong, if you have trouble or whatever, we're physically there to help you, well, virtually there to help you and uh always more fun for me um as somebody teaching a workshop and when I take a workshop myself is if something goes wrong for me while I'm doing it, which can totally happen because computers are haunted and unpredictable. You get to watch the process of me debugging a Pulumi program which is also valuable or as is usually the case uh debugging my Python developer environment. So really, it's the same kind of content, but you've got self directed versus instructor led kind of because people uh learn in different ways and but we'd like to have a consistent experience. So we, yeah, we're gonna build this workshop and there's a bunch of other workshops coming too um that uh some of the other D A are doing that are built from that same stuff. So if you do go to uh Pulumi dot com slash resources, I'm sure you'll, you'll find that. But let's, uh, let's go. And so I'm going to be, um, I think the way we sort of decided, uh, so I'm gonna be driving, but Kat's gonna be directing. So I'm also gonna be putting makeup on at the same time. Why I'm doing the typing. Yeah, because I said I would do that on Twitter and then, and it was like, it was a joke, like I was joking, but then people latched on to it. So now that's the thing that I'm actually doing. My friend, Amy said she's, she's like, I can't tune into the stream. But let me know when it's on youtube because I want to watch for makeup tips from. So we'll just ease those in. Um But uh OK. Uh yeah, that's uh I'll turn this over to you. I'm just, I am just so Amy is here. Hey, OK. So not to be a gigantic cornball but um like we are starting from existing material as a base for this workshop. I'm also putting primer on my face which makes sure that my makeup goes on smoothly and actually stayss there. But um so this workshop is called I AC Fundamentals and I am not going to start with a whole bunch of documentation for it. So that will happen like slowly over time. That's probably just gonna get lifted straight from the learn pathway because that's mostly there. Not for me when I'm directing a uh workshop. But for you, if you decide to go through the workshop, like alone later on and just like, watch the live video. So it's still gonna be there. But we're not gonna reinvent the real, we're not gonna rewrite it. That's ridiculous. Um So we've got this Read me doc that we're probably not gonna touch aside from copy pasting um content into it. But uh Maddie, the first thing we need to do is create a new Pulumi project. So you probably want a directory in there called, I don't know, workshop or my app or something Dealer's Choice. OK. And uh so CD on into there and we need to create a Pulumi program. So I know you want to do it in typescript. I don't wanna do it in typescript. I know you want me to do it in typescript because uh you prefer it to Python. But uh the reality is that I am a bad programmer as most programmers are uh God. I, I wish like I, I want us to do more like wacky one off languages just like as a gag. If the lift wasn't so hard, like I would, I would be doing that more often. So yes, we're gonna do a uh a Python project for this. So Pulumi new Python uh flag. Why is the YOLO flag if you wanted to just say yes to everything that's default. But this is uh where all Pulumi programs start And so that's where we're gonna have people start in this, this workshop. Um It should be pretty boring looking. Um Matt, do we want to always give them? I don't know. I always like to give them like an example of one that is like fully coated and works in a workshop because like when I do these usually from the start from the end almost. Yeah. So like I, I'm trying to think about how this, I'm trying to think about how this pathway goes because sometimes the way you're doing it and this is OK. I'm gonna actually ask you this is, this is a, an audience or viewers or whatever. People are friends, friends. Um Well, there's that, but I have a question. So like I remember specifically in uh when I used to teach chef fundamentals, we actually had a part where we in we intentionally introduced a defect in what the code we told you to do to then see if you could figure it out. But I always felt like that was kind of crap. I feel like that's kind of shitty, that underhanded. So I don't wanna do that. But I do sometimes like it where you're like, you do go down a pathway where you're like, oh, this seems like it would make sense. Let's run the program. It didn't. But why not? Oh Because we have to do that. Like, we've done that before. We're like, we're gonna set a configuration requirement and then we don't know. So that's OK because it illustrates it. So what I'm getting at is I think the problem if you're gonna try to do progressive disclosure, which is like looking at an idea and building and building and building, starting at the end. Uh So maybe what you might. Yeah. So I don't know. I go back and forth on, it depends on how we're pro, if it's going to be progressive, you can't start at the end because you're, you do have spoilers or you're, but if the other way is to work backwards, which is, this is the whole thing. Let's, let's build it. Um It uh kind of uh flips, flips those things around and like, so let's see. Let's, I don't know. See, oh my God. Look at what's happening, what, what's happening? GRP Cio. Oh Have fun. Yeah. OK. So we've got, well, it's good that we're having a lot of vamping time because uh you know, this is just like, this is good we have things to talk about. Um Yeah. So like when I do workshops, I go one of two ways, I like wildly wing it and build like I go through the workshop myself, like I go through the steps of building it and I just talk about what I'm doing while I'm doing it. That's what I prefer to do when I'm giving a workshop. Um But sometimes I do like to do the backwards thing where I have like an already running whole ass demo ready to go and I just talk my way backwards through it. But um I think in this one knowing the content uh because this content was built progressively, there's a journey I would, I would follow that, right? And so we kind of have like fundamentally in this guy because remember it's like you're, we're building like a multi, I said it's not multi stack. I just, I just, it's not multi stack, but I mean, I think there is a point at the end where we like, there's a front end, there's a back and there's a database. And so we're, we're building the pieces a little at a time. Um So it kind of makes sense to, to, to break it up that way. Rather because if you look at the whole thing at the end, it's, it's a, it's a whole lot, you know, is this worth breaking up into lab directories? Um Lab one lap two, lab three. I would because I'm I'm looking, I'm looking at what they are. Well, the first section is just creating the pro that's not even really a lab. So I understand why for, for the purpose of like a self directed it is. But yeah, it shouldn't be, you're just gonna do that. It's, it's almost like just introduction where we start. So you really have two labs, you have the creating Docker images lab and the configuring and provisioning containers, lab is how I would look at it. OK. So look at that. It finally, like, you know, finally finished my stuff. OK. So what I always like to do with my workshops though, um regardless of how I'm, I'm teaching it, I'll always have like a directory that has the fully complete code in it. So that like if something goes wrong, like, or I forget how to type, Uh I forget whether it's if name equals Maine or if name is Maine, which I forget all the time, even though I've been writing Python for a decade, um I can copy and paste from it. So what we need to get into the workshop directory is probably what? Well, I was gonna actually take a step. There's an even I, I want, yes. And what you just said, I think you want that, but you also want a checkpoint of the fully coded at the end of the lab because I've also helped for the people doing it. Whereas if you, yeah, just like, uh you know, just like uh Brandon just said, like having the whole code there available because maybe someone's following along in the workshop and something happens and they get behind this, lets them get caught up by looking and comparing. So I think um I think what we're doing here is fine. Let's do this and then, but really what we actually end up doing, let me let me, let me riddle you this your because if you think about it, your final finished code is really your final code of lab two. It is. So I would almost get rid of our workshop directory and two and then let's put them together and we can work it backwards, right if we want to. Um Yeah, kind of uh I like that. All right, the entire kitchen is burned to the ground, but we prepared the cake beforehand. Look at that beauty. I see. You've seen some of my demos before. All right. So let's go ahead and we'll just, I'm just gonna leave. I don't care about that directory, but let's see. OK. Yeah. Lab one. And because you can do the read me, you can do just a read me inside of it but it's also the code maybe, I don't know. Let's uh um OK. Uh Pulumi hopefully this, this will go faster because didn't have to like go crazy. Yeah. Yeah. There we go. Much better with uh it doesn't Yeah, it didn't have to build GP. Yeah. Um OK. So All right, cool. Let's uh uh but also you want to work backwards from lab one. Uh Yeah, we'll start with lab one. So yeah, because because then we'll just copy what we had into lab two. So lab one is where we start. OK. So lab one, we need a Lyme project in there. We got it. There's our um and if we're going a little fat like because we, we need to get. So, so, so if you're watching, you've never used Pulumi before. This is not. If you've never used Pulumi before, please register and come to the workshop. Uh in a couple of weeks. It won't be spoilers. But um, so we might skip a couple of things around about what we're doing uh as we're going. But ok, cool. We got our, basically our scaffold of a Pulumi program that does nothing at this point. Um And in the lab, one directory, we need an app directory. I'm just ok. Yeah. So let's see. And we are going to, don't we clone something into? Yeah, we're, we're stealing some, um, we're stealing some codes. Oh, there it is. I'm, I'm going back. Ok. So you're, you're, we, there was nothing that we needed to do. OK? Everything that's on creating a Pulumi project in the learn path we've already done. That's just OK. We're already on to creating images. OK? Um Where's my liquid highlighter? So what cat was just saying is, so there's this, uh the app, what we're doing here is we're building this, you know, kind of front and back end app and everything. But the code of the app comes from a different, we just, you know, pulling it down from this other repo. So I'm just gonna clone it into, into app and then um just fuss this around a little bit and then. So now if we, yeah, so we got this is all the code for the application that we're gonna deploy and we don't really even much give a crap about it. Um Not really, but like if we look at, if you're interested, you know, this is the docker file for the back end, this is all just the stuff that gets deployed. Um And I think we would talk about this a little bit in the workshop, but we've got our, we're, we're not to the point even. OK. Build your Docker image with. OK. So let's see. Uh when actually giving the workshop, I would absolutely be like stopping to talk through like what is going on in this Docker file even though it's not like it's not complex and it's also not directly relevant to Pulumi. But um it's good for understanding like what the hell we're building, you know. So because I don't like to assume the experience level of the people I am teaching in a workshop. Why does this not work? Why does this mean? Well, why does it say can't resolve Ploy Docker? I just installed Ploy Docker because the requirements uh it's not in your requirements at TXD. Um But Python shouldn't care. Oh, never mind, never mind. I see white. There's instructions in the workshop that told me to do that and I didn't do it. There we go. Which is the thing that I will document when I go back after this workshop and type a whole bunch of, uh, docks in the Red Meat or rather, and now it's in the requirements. Um, this also might be like a VS code weirdness thing. Um, because there, there is some weirdness with, um, is it because it's in the, but it's not actually in my, but yeah, but VS code isn't acting inside of the or something. I, I used to text, um, well, you could be typing but you didn't. So, but I'm putting makeup on but I just. Ok. Right. Fair enough. It doesn't really matter for our purposes here. I can not be unhappy about squiggly. It's fine. I will deal with it. My life will move on. Um There is some weirdness with V code. Um So cool. OK. Uh All right. So we did this run plue me up. We don't need to do that right now. Um because we're just, I'm just trying to get like the final code idea into here. So you know what I mean? Like that's, that's the thing like, so you have a I because I don't think we have anywhere. OK. Uh at the front end client and Mango GB. Uh I think I also like to compare your program to this complete program. OK, cool. Actually forget all this. There we go. There's all Laura's code. Uh uh So this should be, this should be the end of this should be the state at the end of uh lab one. It is um what is the expected prerequisite knowledge of this audience? Would they already know what all of these files like requirements at TXT and S are for? Probably, um, some of them will, like, if they're Python developers, they will absolutely be familiar with like Venv directories and requirements dot TXD because those are just realities of developing in Python. But um it's ok if they don't. Um it's that that's something that is like easy for me to explain. And uh I usually do err on the side of like being way too careful when explaining things during workshops that are marketed towards like uh an introductory audience. Uh And I will go ahead. I was just gonna say this workshop is not, is not marketed and listed as writing a Pulumi program in Python. It is, it is learning Pulumi. So it's entirely possible that you're like, I don't know Python. I actually don't care. I just need to be able to get the ideas that are coming out of it because frankly, if we were to that, one of the cool things about Pulumi is you can write it in so many different languages and you can use so many different clouds and hyper scalars and stuff that if we wanted to teach a workshop on every different cloud you could use with every different language, we would need our entire team to do nothing but that ever. And even then we wouldn't have any time to do that and, and, you know, that would be really disappointing for all of you who'd like to see us, you know, uh, talk trash on Twitter. So, you know, there's that and like, I, I like using Python for stuff like this. Not just because it's my preferred language to, to write, but because, uh, the Python syntax is so familiar to most people just because it reads like pseudo code that even if you can't write Python, you can probably, you, you get the, you get the idea, you know. So it's, I don't know, could I could I still do this workshop in like go Yeah, like sure. But some of the conventions are gonna be a little bit more alien to some people. So just to back up, uh like the, the kind of the chat was saying, uh, said I was asking mostly because one, no way you wanna give a quick tour and to Kat's point, the way we're doing this on the stream right now is we're, we're working backwards from the code. Like we haven't built any of the curriculum yet. We're starting with, remember we were like, we just want to get our like final point and then start writing if you will, the, the speaker notes the, the flow and stuff like that. So, um hi, other cat also tune in tomorrow. So Kat Morgan and Kat Cosgrove are doing a stream about I don't know. It's probably got to do with Pulumi because why not? Um, cat, uh, other cat, Cat Morgan, if you want to dump the info in the chat, we'll make sure everybody sees it because Cat Cosgrove is, her hands are full of makeup. Um, cool. Ok. So we have our lab one final state which gives us the ability to, first of all, if we just need to check, but also if you are working on the workshop, you've got a thing to connect to. Um So we might as well go into lab two. And then, so first thing is again, we need to do a Pulumi New Python just so it builds all the stuff. Now, you might say Maddie couldn't, you just like, actually, I probably could have just copied the lab one directory at the end of the day. I just realized that's what I should have done because, but whatever, it's fine. I like typing uh Pulumi New because not really, but it would be a reason. OK. Cool. Um And then now we will go. And so our main dot pi uh So do you, is it, do you go? Du du du du pie? See, my problem with Python is, I don't know how to say anything. Uh OK. So with the like if name is main convention, you can just say if name is Maine and people like know what you mean, you don't have to ask, how do you call this file. You just say if name is Maine? Oh no, that you would just call it Maine dot Pie. Ok. So I'm saying it right when I say Main dot Pie. Yeah. Yeah. Main dot Pie is right. Ok. That's cool. All right. Um, ok. I'm, I'm going back to the thing. Ok. Uh I think that, oh, I gotta get the app directed. See I should. Ok. You know what I'm gonna do? That is totally what I should have done because there's too much shit in this lab one. That's, it's just easier to do this. You know what I mean? Because there were too many uh manual steps. Um Yeah. Yeah. So because I had to get the app directory, we had to do this. Now we have all this theoretically this worked until Python decides to hate me. Cool. OK. So now I'm contouring my jawline so that nobody can see my double chin by the way. Um or well, you really, but I appreciate it. You know what I'm doing my best. Um I, I decided a while ago to um instead I've saw an inspirational shit post and I decided instead of um trying to be less cringe to kill the part of me that cringes. So that's good. But like what I was saying, you actually are reaching you, you're making it work. So I remember and part of swamp up they did this thing called Devops Kitchen and it was really fun. That was fun. So what they did is they had a bunch of the speakers. They, they got like this Michelin chef from France and like, we all got on a zoom basically. And they sent us all the ingredients to make a risotto and the chef taught us and it was all, we all filmed it and they cut it together. But the thing that was the problem is that they're like, well, we want to make this like, you know, like they, you know, they're like, get like a bunch of like Dev ops puns and jokes into it. Like you could do whatever. And I'm like, well, first of all, it'll just happen, like we're gonna do that and we were all fine like all the speakers. But they, they literally obviously told this chef stuff to say and they, and I've, I've studied improv and one of the rules of improv is don't try to be funny, right? The funny will come. But if you try to be funny, it's a joke. Um OK. So we got our uh I'm losing track of where I'm at here. OK. So your program should not match this code. Um Create a container resource. Um A thing to note with building workshops um for the audience which is the point of us doing this on screen. Um I will go back and comment the shit out of this code, like the absolute shit out of it. Every little section of this is going to get a commented explanation on like what is happening here and why I don't care if people don't read it during the workshop, I don't expect them to. There are things that I will explain while I'm talking in the workshop. But uh for absolutely anybody who just tries to go back and do it on their own or tries to do it again, it is useful to have it there in case something goes wrong in their code and they need to like figure out what's going on. Matt, you're making a terrible face. I'm really confused. There's actually a problem in this and I don't understand why it's happening. So in the directions in the lab it says you need to or in the learn, it says we have to populate first cop and so it says there should be a products dot J sign in the app data directory. Oh, there it is. Wait, why did it when I do CP app data products at Jason? No such file. Um What, what's your present working directory? Uh lab too. Yeah, so that's right. Uh Use tab auto completion to see if you're like mistyping something. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Here it is. And it's, I don't know why it would care about this. No, wait, not that, that sorry. I don't get it but I don't care right now. I'm, it could easily just be another case of um VS code planted. This isn't, this isn't VS code, that's just, that's just, that's just a terminal. Yeah. But yeah, interesting. I say Ziz. Well, yeah, but you know what, I'm still like, not over the fact that I got dragged to the moon and back over saying um Rim Raff instead of literally verbalizing RMR as it's rem Raph, get over yourself, take yourself less seriously. Just say Rem Raff. It's fun. Christ products dot Json isn't in app slash data is what David says. It is though right there, right? I I mean it looks like it is to me here. Um Somebody saying you should stat it, which is a good point. Uh Tins Spoon is I'm a steel rim raft. Absolutely. Take it when you need to give me credit. Ok, so I think I have all the code in here now. So that's it. Ok, so you have what we have for you now, Miss Cat is you have a lab one and a lab two final states of code. Um which gets us to the point that now we could like maybe teach some stuff. Um is an inspirational should post cat's middle name. It is now. Um ok, Catherine is actually my middle name. My first name is Caroline. I promise I won't look this ridiculous when my makeup is actually finished, but like, yeah, look you can stat it. I don't know why you can't copy it. Um Well, look at the permissions. It's weird. Right. I don't know that we did. You know what the end result is? We got it done. But now the thing that will be interesting though can actually, to be fair, we should maybe figure this out because you're gonna run into this. I'm gonna run into this. Yeah. Um. Um, ok. So just for fun because this should happen, should happen in both places. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'll be damned. It works fine in lab one. I wonder if it's because because of the Get directory is the dot Get still in there. I bet it didn't come over do an LS A in the lab to have. Yeah. Yeah, that's why that get director is not there. So, so again, this is not how your students are gonna handle this because they're gonna all have it in one place. This was all from laziness as there's almost problem. So anyway, the end result is everything. That's fine. Um, cool. All right. What do we want to do now? So now you have your final state. Um, and I would imagine what we want to do is inside each of those needs me, read me. Yeah, that's, yeah. What directory am I in? Now each of us needs to read me with the instructions lifted from the learn pathway. Uh We'll have to like double check and make sure that nothing needs to be changed accordingly to, to the fact that, um, step one from the learn pathway has been merged into, uh, step two for lab one. Yeah. So you just need to, like, go here and like, basically what was, yeah, what was, uh, the first tutorial that creating a Pulumi project? Yeah. So that gets merged with the, uh, step two docks. Both become lab one. Um, it's gonna be like shit like this. It's gonna be shit like that. Yeah. And, um, making sure that we change things like the names of the application or whatever that. Why did you do? What? Nothing it was just you're gonna, it was VS code. It like took my sh and decided to make it a bunch of squiggles for some reason like tilda, I don't know why. What is this? Not like headings, I hate mark down but whatever. Um ok, I have opinions about mark down our first lunch be. Oh my God dear God, whatever. Ok. So, so that's effectively I'm trying to think about a the thing is this, this whole thing is already written and marked down in a different rebo. I mean I would just yo it from there because that's what I'm, that's what I'm gonna do. I'm just looking to find, I even have that rebo open in a different um what do you, who do you call it? Um Who do you call it? Browser window tab. Yeah, VS code window. Ok. Content, learn ploy fundamentals. Create a ploy project. That's fine. All Right. So we're gonna do this part. We don't need all this crap. Just need that stuff and some of that stuff has to get changed because like, we don't have the same directory structure. We aren't naming things the same way. There's going to be a bunch of, like, weird links in there. Uh We also don't need the chooser stuff. You do? Oh, you're all, wait, you, I'm in the right place now. Right? Yeah, you all can see you are. Ok. Um, yeah, we don't need to like, um, I mean, we can leave the, my first app stuff. We can, we can still call it that. There's no reason why because they're like the directory structure on the attendees. Computers will be different than the directory structure on, uh, the actual workshop. So that's fine for all that to stay, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just trying to, um, I contoured my nose today, which is not something I normally do. It just seems like it would be fun. Was that, was it fun? You know, I already have a very small straight nose. So, like, genuinely you can't really tell that I have my nose contoured except for in, like, flash photography unless I do the, like, really aggressive, like super sharp, narrow, like girl nose. And I didn't do that because I think it looks terrible on me, which is unfortunate because E girls are adorable and I, I would love, I would love to be able to be that cute. But um I was not blessed with the bone structure for that kind of energy. Um or the high pitched voice. My, my voice is way too low to do the thing. So alas uh did, did you understand? I did, I didn't ever have not understand it. I was just asking, I thought it was what I was saying. Is it, is it possible for to be used for good? That was the, that was the fundamental question I was asking you. I knew what we were talking about. I just, you know, I needed your, I needed your uh ruling on that. OK. So OK, we got that. OK. So that took care of that part. Um uh You have a wait, wait, wait. Oh Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Show me, you don't write Python without showing me you don't write Python. Um OK. So you have these pieces in there and then if I go back and say in the chat uh creating darker images, this is another one that's, this is gonna be, we're gonna go with really aggressive highlighter because we can't, we can't actually be an E girl. Um But we can, we can put highlighter on like, oh my God, I really want Pulumi stickers like so bad. Well, you're, you're a sticker engineer like I am a sticker engineer. OK. Where did this uh you know y'all? Um And by y'all, I mean, chat, chat. Are you going to, are you gonna be a cub? Eu but if you're in the chat and you're gonna be at Cuban? Eu and Valencia, you perk up and perk up your ears. Can I tell him? I, I have learned you're not able to keep any secret about any cool shit we're doing. So, I mean, I think I feel like you already know. Can you already told 30,000 people on Twitter? I think I can tell, you know, 15 people in, you know, the video. So that's, but it's, it's our secret. Everybody don't tell anyone, don't tell anybody, don't tell anybody but we or I mean, really? No, this is good because I ordered a shitload of them and I need them to like all go away so that um our boss keeps giving me money to buy stupid shit. Um Chat, chat. I purchased 500 Pulumi branded caters to give away at coupon. Eu extremely limited. If you're going to be at coupon, eu come find me or the Pulumi booth, Pulumi booth. And if you say oo, I will give you a pair of cat ears. They are very cute. I will be wearing them but you have to say they're not for Pulumi or Pulumi, you gotta, you gotta earn them. You know, it's like if you, you have to have like a substantial conversation or like do a task or something at most booths to get like the good shit to get something more than a sticker. Like, if you want socks or whatever, you have to actually talk to somebody or, like, do a demo or whatever. If you say will, I'll give you a cat here. What do you put for the language? If there's no language? But you just want to make it, like, look different. I, I just, I put nothing like that. The linters gonna complain. Oh, but this doesn't have to run through the winter. We're not putting this through our C I CD. So it's OK. Yeah, this doesn't go through our C I so it doesn't OK. That's fine. Ok. Fair enough. Yeah. But yeah, I would just, I would just fence it like that, that, that, that's fine. It was more of a, I, I wanted to do that in a blog post the other day too when and uh that I would have to, it would complain. We have a very, very aggressive mark down in our blog posting C I CD and it's so mean. It is super mean. And yeah. Um OK. Back end do file, oh my God, contouring our nose. So we've got a high to highlight our nose just on the very edge. Back in the day, we used to like highlight our noses by like running highlighters straight down the whole nose and that looks terrible. And um, but we thought it looked great at the time and every time I look back at old pictures of me. I cringe a little bit. It's the eyebrows. It's the like super long nose highlight. It's using bronzer as contour. We made mistakes, folks. Um You can probably just find and replace for uh curly, curly. That's what I'm doing. That's what I was multi selecting. Uh The lang hosts only showed up once lang file is twice. So, are you having fun? I am. I mean, this is like way more entertaining than sitting here like doing this alone, right? Without chat, talk to. Oh, ok. Normally do. Oh, interesting. Does our allow that David? Well, as long as markdown lint does, then it'll be fine. That's all it's running. So if I don't catch it here, I assume that Rock Code Academy is David and not like, well, I think that's his, that's his youtube login or youtube ID. Yeah. Again, we shouldn't assume maybe somebody hacked him. I don't know because that's what I would do if I, if I hacked Dave Flanagan's youtube, I would immediately go to the ploy stream and use it to heckle. Oh God. Using the base tone, two tones darker than your skin. Yes. OK. That works. Thanks. There was this thing, I, I mean, this is like, this is still a thing with like a certain type of person who is convinced that their skin is fairer than it is. I used to do this too in high school. I grew out of it. It, it's 2022. Like there there is definitely a foundation shade for you. You are not as pale as you think you are and you look ridiculous. The like face two shades lighter than your neck thing that looks just as bad as the face. Two shades darker thing please. For the love of God be realistic about it. Like this is, this is Pat mcgrath skin fetish and shade light three, which is what I wear in the winter in a couple of months when I've had some more sun exposure, I will wear light five and I'm pretty pale and those aren't the lightest shades. Damn. So what I decided to do here because I realized that normally when you're doing a stream with things like this, like your code and stuff is terribly interesting watching me like edit markdown is not as terribly interesting as maybe seeing everybody's comments while they listen to us talk. Um I was trying to find like a good layout where we can end up seeing the chat. Yeah, these are live comments. Um So that's the thing because some of you are on Twitch and some of you are on youtube. So you aren't seeing each other. So this way you can see all the comments like we can see that Brendan is from Twitch because he's got a little Twitchy thing next to his, you know, and and uh whoever hacked David's account is coming from youtube. Um because I continue to have the head cannon that rock cos youtube got hacked today. I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna believe that. Yeah. Yeah, that's, yeah, that's you tube. Yeah. Yeah, you tube. Um So I think there's a lag getting to the comments because because you all don't know why we're laughing if you're on youtube, you don't know why we're laughing at Brandon right now. Should we wait? Like a, a polite um like I think I would wait till you see them in the, in the thing. Ok. Yeah, that's fair. Um But yeah, I mean that's, that's the point. It's the Twitch delay. No, no. So I maybe because the comments coming from Twitch, I don't know. Now I'm really confused. Um I just wanna see if mine are showing up in the Yeah, now the common part is no, but are you seeing them in? Oh my God. David doesn't know what is, oh dear God. Uh date. OK, David. Wow. Um OK. So blah, blah, blah David. That's not very of you, buddy. Can I, can I send you a tiktok you David? Yes, that was, that was well done. I'm also impressed that for as long as, as David's been on our team, which has been a few months, more than a few months, it's been like six months. I think that might have been the first time that's happened. I don't know I could be wrong. Maybe I just missed it. Before, but that seems like missed opportunities. David followed me on Twitter for like, years. No. But I mean, the first time it's happened, like, you know, co-worker, like an, you know, you think that there would have been an opportunity for an E David. David? Yeah, exactly. I'm just gonna look for him now. Even though you know what y'all, I actually don't fucking like shits creek. I was, that was, that was my one. It was worth it. I think that show is so wildly overrated. Like I know Mattie love it. I did my damnedest. But I like the whole time. I was just like, these people are awful. It's a show about awful people and they have no redeeming qualities and they keep getting away with how terrible they are FCC rules. Don't apply Brandon. It's just that like Matt asked me to PG 13 it which means I only get to say the F word once. So why, why is this chooses? 00 That's weird how I have words for Christian. He like did this in weird order. The chooser, the chooser sometimes he did typescript first and sometimes he did P Python first did Christian do this one. Christian did the typescript. Oh OK. Oh, wow. This the, the, the chat overlay is super laggy. It's super behind I think for me at least like when I'm looking at it, right? Cat, am I correct? Like look in the, in the screen share or not the screen share, but you should see the in res stream, right? Doesn't it look like like the last update that I see in the stream overlay is David. Oh, no, I'm dumb. You're, I'm reading the bottom instead of bottom to top Mattie. But you're pretty. Ok. Well, thank you. You're welcome. That's why I was like, they're not updating it. It's because I was expecting new comments to be at the bottom, not at the top. So now, now I feel much better about everything. I mean, it is a little bit weird that it's inverted. Whoa, what just happened here? Uh Let's go. Uh Copilot. No. Oh I 00 it like fenced something. It was weird. Ok, let's see. That all looks fine. That's what I just wanna get rid of. Choose your language. Everything's haunted but you know what? We're gonna have a soon folks and that's what matters. Oh my God, this is a man in the ass. My favorite part of having eyelash extensions is that if I'm like super lazy, all I have to do is put on some like brow gel and a mask and the fact that I have like moderately presentable eyebrows and big eyelashes makes people think that I have my shit together because they can't see the rest of my face. So now there's anything wrong with going out without makeup on. I do that all the time. But um if I feel like I need to look vaguely presentable, but I don't want to put makeup on eyelash extensions. They're revolutionizing laziness for me. Yeah. Uh David. Yeah. Eight second delay. That's fine. But that's I was expecting because I was reading them wrong. I was like it's been 20 minutes since the last chat that went in there. Um So, well, actually what I would do next time uh uh it says have a script to preproce the chooser is I would go back to the commit on this file before Christian added the type script and it was all just Python and I could just switch what I should have done. Yeah. So remember that when you do yours? Yeah. Oh I'm not doing any, you're not doing one. No, the next one is Laura and then it's David and actually Laura is Laura if I recall correctly is content that doesn't even exist on learn yet. It is, it's a new learn path. David is doing. Yeah. So, so David, although I know Rock, he's already written some thing that he's gonna run in a case cluster that will create his content for him, you know. So I don't, we don't need to tell, you know, no one has told David how to do this stuff. He's gonna do it 30 times better and write an API um OK. And also like, that's just, that's, I don't know, that's a good thing about our Dev team. We all approach our jobs. In very different ways. Um And David makes us all look like bad programmers though, like, which is, you know, totally fair. I don't write production code anymore for a reason. Like I haven't been an engineer in three years, four years, four years, but, you know, somebody on the team has to write passable code. Um You do need to probably get rid of these like doc links. I'm going to, I wanted to go, what I'm doing is the big broad stroke of like the code block, the typescript code block. Um And let's see. So folks sometimes building a workshop is just like kind of a bunch of tedious shit like this. And you can like, yes, Maddie could have like probably saved some time by going back to the commit where Christian updated things to type script and just you that uh you want to commit for. But I also don't know if other things were updated and changed after that too. That not necessarily just doing that. Like I, I would have to II, I happen to think that is true in my head that we didn't add anything more, but I also know we've been troubleshooting some stuff in this learn path. So um yeah. Um OK, choose your language. Um I have a question for the audience and stuff. So like, OK, what was like one of the, your most favorite workshops you've ever taken? And like, what made it really helpful to you. Oh yeah, like not necessarily like the product or whatever, but what stood out about the way the workshop was presented uh personally, like Git Pod has been the dis my discovery of Git Pod has been a crazy useful thing for me and uh teaching workshops because I know that my students have a functioning environment that has all of the prerequisites they need. I don't have to deal with like the differences between their machines because it's all just like some shit running in a, in a browser window, right? Which is great. Uh Any workshop is helpful if I can interact with the workshop giver and ask questions. Uh Yeah. Um For sure. I, I have huh I have allowed my workshops to be pre-recorded before. Like I gave a workshop live and then um the recording was rerun for like inconvenient time zones for um like a a but I don't, I don't like doing, I don't like letting that happen, you know, like specifically because I need to be able to answer questions for people. And it's, it's awkward in that situation because like the, you know, that happens for all of our workshops here. I know they're not rerun though that way. It's not like they're just available on demand after they're available on demand is totally, is totally different. This was run as live. So like the audience was under the impression that it was live and I think that's awkward because they're like, they're then listening to a recording of me answering questions that weren't asked, which can still be useful information if it was a good question. Right. And you're like, how come nobody answered my question? Yeah. And it's just because you aren't actually here because I'm not actually there. And yeah, so I don't, I don't like letting that happen, but also, uh I don't like having to give a workshop at like 3 30 in the morning. So what's the solution there? Uh I want to reply to just something that came up in the chat. So Brendan was like, you know, you could use it when you're talking about using Git pod. I wanna actually explain why we're not using gift pod for this particular workshop. Um This particular workshop actually uses Docker, your configuring Docker. So you get there's kind of a docker section that would be going because with git pod, what it's doing is it's running in a container. So I don't think it would work terribly well because you can't really, I could be wrong somebody correct me if I'm wrong, but you can't really run dot inside of a docker container. So you can, but probably not in the way we want to for this. Yeah. Not in the way we would want to for this. You would run into some weirdness with like binding House that has nothing to do with what we're trying to teach, right? Like it, you'd spend a lot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You would spend a lot of time, like, setting this up to work in that specific way and the Docker file would start looking really fucking weird and unrecognizable and it would be a lot of time having to explain like why this Docker file looks so weird just so that we could run it and get pod. Like, so, unfortunately, no, this one can't be run and git pod. But um it's fine. Uh It's fine assuming everybody is on a Mac or Linux actually, because there's a lot of weirdness with Docker on um some versions of Windows, which sucks. And that's just not a thing that you can like control for aside from knowing that like Docker doesn't run, right or it doesn't run at all on some versions of Windows, right? I think as long as you're running like windows 10 home or pro it's fine. I could be wrong about home, but it's like earlier versions. So one thing, one thing that just occurred to me um as a bit of a, just a thing we should, we should follow up on, um we need to go into the workshop page, like especially the Reds page or the description. We need to make sure that people know the because there are pre for this because it's not gonna be just run it in your browser. So uh we can, you know what I mean? We should just do that after this. No, no, no, no, we're not doing it right now. I was just, that was what to do. So everybody tweet at me and Kat like tomorrow and say, did you go update the, you know, the workshop description pre? So we don't forget. Um that's, that's sort of the story with that. So um cool. OK. We are coming up close to the end. So that actually worked out pretty good. OK. Uh Let me just do, I'm gonna do you a favor cat because this fundamentally is your workshop that I, what did I just do? I don't know. What did you just do? I don't know. I tried to, I put setting spray on my face. OK. Um which is a thing that melts the like layers of your makeup together, like your, your powder to your blush in your foundation and shit and uh kind of makes it look like one layer instead of a powdery weirdness or whatever makes it stay longer. Looks nice. Yeah. Uh I'm by the way, I am uh yoing this right into Maine for you but I'm pretty sure that's fine. I mean I'm, yeah, I was like, I don't think I need to put APR into your very empty repo but yeah, can you also sign your commits, please? I do actually I would prefer if you forked it and made Apr I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna be like you're gonna fly over here and slap me. No, no, no, you're, you're laughing. But, well, actually, I don't know, I've never really seen cat laugh. Uh, it's not really, that's not really the vibe but uh I've never seen cat laugh. I'm so well, I'm positive you've seen me laugh. No, I, I'm just, but you know, great line. Yeah. It, it, it worked for my, my point. There you go. Time commit also. Smart ass sign, commit. Did you sign the commit? Yeah. So did you, yeah, your initial commit? Oh Because you did it. I did it, I did it from get though. I did actually sign a commit today because I had to open APR against the Cober website. Mine are always signed. I just have my get client configured to do that. So here's the thing I do on my um my personal laptop but I hate GP G and I don't want to fight with it. So if I am like committing something from my work laptop, it's not signed. That's fair. That's the one like yeah, getting, getting that in sync. 00 man, I ruined the whole thing. I was gonna be all smart ass and I did my usual re stream problem which is I share, you share your screen, but then you have to actually add it. So by the way, this is what I was giving Kat a hard time about is that both her commit and mine are verified. So that was the, the joke that. So um yeah, I like it if you thank you. Thank you for your support. If you sign commits, you're effectively signing one hashes. It is broken by design. Good times. All right. Awesome. Well, so good, good fun times on the stream. Thanks for everybody for hanging out um a couple of my makeup too. So this is great. So tomorrow there's lots of like fun ways. If you basically want more of me and or cat, actually, you're not gonna get both of us together. But earlier in the day, you can have Cat Squared, you can have Kat Cosgrove and Kat Morgan who are gonna be um uh doing uh what what do you, what do, what do you, what are you doing? We're doing a and I know but you have like a yeah um hang on, I'm gonna get the we are using Pulumi to stand up a whole bunch of uh con resources. Um Why is this not on our? Oh, there it is. I got it. Ok. So here I will drop the link in the chat. Um also, yeah, cats, right. We don't know what we're doing. Let's be honest. Um It's because we are like very cool and smart and we are going to wing it. Uh Is there a schedule or something we can look at? Cool actually there is. So if you go to Pulumi dot com slash resources, well, you'll see those webinars and stuff. Um the other thing is so if you are on uh whether whatever thing Twitch, follow us on Twitch, subscribe to us on youtube, that'll get you on our live streams. So tomorrow uh at basically the same time, but an hour earlier, I'm gonna have Allie Diamond, uh who is at lace work and she's gonna come on and we're just gonna mess around actually with Python again. Um But we don't really know what we're gonna do and it might have to do with PLU. It might not, but it's definitely gonna be uh chaotic. And if you know, uh Ellie, uh you should come as no surprise. So um join us, join us for that. But yeah, uh subscribe on youtube. Follow on Twitch. I got that right. Right. Yep. All these things and uh we'll see you all on the internet. It's cat. But thanks for, yeah, you're like, yeah, you're like, yeah, thanks you. This is what we're gonna do anyway. Basically this is what I gonna do this afternoon. You just, we had to do this anyway. So it's just doing it, do it on the internet. Everybody can see. So, yes, thanks. This is messing up. There we go. Ok, cool.

---
