---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - What's Our CUE (lang) With Alison Dowdney"
title: "PulumiVision - What's Our CUE (lang) With Alison Dowdney"
meta_desc: |
    Matty is joined by Alison Dowdney (Kasten) as the two of them dig into CUE - an open-source data validation language and inference engine with its ...
url_slug: pulumivision-whats-our-cue-lang-alison-dowdney
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - What's Our CUE (lang) With Alison Dowdney"
  description: |
    Matty is joined by Alison Dowdney (Kasten) as the two of them dig into CUE - an open-source data validation language and inference engine with its roots in logic programming.  Neither Alison nor Matty have ever used CUE, so we'll be trying our best to learn the basics!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-25T08:03:09Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ttcm5HtXTKs
transcript: |
    It takes people a minute to join and do things because it's streaming. Although it's always funny, I figure like when people watch the replay and they're like, yeah, but I don't have to sit here and do nothing because I'm watching now in the future. So, um cool. We got some people joining, I guess we can start. Oh, shit. Wow. Look at all these people. Awesome. Uh Welcome to Pulumi Vision. Uh, our weekly Ish Stream where it's hosted by Pulumi and sometimes we even talk about Pulumi today will not necessarily be one of those days. Uh I'm joined by Alison Alison. Uh You wanna tell the people like what's up? Uh What is up? Uh, hi chat. Uh How are you doing? Uh It is, uh, it's Thursday. Um And today, uh I am here, uh you know, just chilling. I know we're just, we're vibing about you. Yeah, we're, we're trying to find the cue. So what we're doing here today, we were uh, Alice and I were trying to figure out what we wanted to do when we did a live stream together and we thought it'd be pretty cool to take something that neither of us knew anything about. And I'm not gonna go so far as to say we're going to learn it because that might be arrogant to think that we could learn a whole brand new thing in an hour. But we're gonna try to learn about it a little bit and experiment. And uh uh Paris, uh Pitman suggested that people are all wound up and excited about this thing called Q and we're like, cool and then decided we would look nothing at it. We're going into it basically cold. Um If you're in the chat and you're into queue and you know, it, like, let us know because that'd be cool to know that. Uh if you have heard of it before, if you don't know anything and you're just here to vibe. That's awesome too. Um So, yeah. Uh so this is, you know, you can kind of tag along if you go to Q lang dot org, that's where we're gonna be playing a little bit. Um Maybe we'll just, you know, kind of pull up the website here and see what we can figure out about what this, this is all about. Um, let's see, we'll go, we'll read all the quote unquote marketing copy first. I don't know if it's really marketing copy. It's like an open source project. But, um, oh, wait, I did that wrong. Sorry, let's make it prettier. Maddie. Oh, hi, Paul. Hi, Anne. Um, welcome along, you know, Uh OK. There we go. Yeah. OK. So uh apparently Q stands for configure unify, execute. Uh How many times do you know when there's like an initialism that gets created and you sort of back into it? Like you're like, I want to call it this and I'm gonna figure out what it stands for next. Do you think they did that in this case, Alison? Uh No clue. I haven't even looked at the website. So we're, we're diving in now. We're gonna go deep. I, I think, yeah, I always feel like I've created projects where I know I want to call it this and then I have to figure out what it stands for after the fact. So, but uh like I had uh when I was at apartments dot com, like I created an internal system which was called Athena and then I had to decide Athena was an acronym or rather an, well, I guess it is an acronym if it's, if it spells a word, but it was like apartments tech, whatever, whatever, whatever. So, OK. So anyway, so it says Q is for validating, defining and using dynamic and text based data and we can be in control of our data. I could dig that. Um So it's an open source language. It has a rich set of API S. Would anybody admit that they didn't have rich API S? Would someone be like we're a language that has really crappy API S like we have two. So um but we can define generate and validate data. OK. Cool. Uh Looks like it integrates with a bunch of stuff. Of course, it integrates with Kubernetes because how uh how could, oh Awesome. So Paul uh work is uh you know, works on uh the um core Q project team. So awesome. So, so also Paul, I am not snaking about Q, like I'm snarking about things in general. So I'm really excited uh as we're gonna kind of go through this stuff to see how things happen. All right. So I was kind of looking um if we sort of say like, OK, learn more, I always want to learn more. So let's learn about what it's about. We are not gonna read this entire wall of text here, you can read this at your, at your leisure. But uh so it's a data validation language. OK? So we can kind of apply to that. So one of the things I've been sort of trying to figure out is like, what would we use this for? Right. And so it's kind of talking about. Ok. OK. So values and types are the same push that pull data validators. This is a lot to think about um maybe we should try a tutorial first and then figure out what we do with um we'll start with getting started. Ok. So we need to uh install it. OK? And we can uh we'll go ahead and maybe I'll install this, uh from, from the binaries. Uh, I'm not gonna share my screen because Brew install is not like the most interesting thing to watch happen, but we'll stick on the website for right now. Part of the reason I don't show my whole desktop in case you're wondering is because I have a 49 inch monitor. Um, but ok, so we, once we have it installed, I guess, let's look at the tutorials and we have a, ok, trying to figure out how to follow these tutorials here. Um We've got, so Q is a super set of Jason. Ok. So we get comments. That's nice. Uh Quote. So it looks like for example, ok, I'm gonna switch over and we'll, we'll, we'll start just trying these things and see what happens. All right. So let's go back to some code here. Ok. All right. So I've got myself a little uh little, little code. We're gonna work on here. So let's say we'll just say touch or we're gonna create Q file. Ok? And it looks like it looks like I, I know this, I do this in res stream every single time because I, I pick it, but then I have to add it to the stream. OK? Cool. So what we did is I created this Jason dot Q and we can just set some um some values in here. Ok. So we're gonna set 1 to 12 to 2, we can say this is a comment because I like comment. Oh my God. Sometimes ID es are too like they just get in your way, right? Ok. Um oh, a field using quotes. OK. So then we could say 2.5 is set to 2.5 and then we can make a list, right? So 123, et cetera. OK. So now it looks like if I oh the marketplace has interesting, we're gonna look at that in a second. So if I were to say Q exports A, um I thought I installed Q. All right. So this is a problem. Installing cue from. 00 no, I ran into this earlier. Hey, Allison, how do you feel about sharing your screen and doing this stuff? So here's my problem home brew is not working right for me right now because my command line tools are out of date. So or I can do uh install. Let's here. Let's do this instead. Sorry. Uh It's OK. We got it, we got it, we got it. We can um we just want to install via brew so we can install from source. Let's do this. We're gonna do here we go. New fall. Uh Yeah. Uh What am I gonna call? I think we might be OK. Oh VS Code extension with highlighting. Yeah. Uh uh David. Um I saw it's prompting me for that. Oh, you can't see it because our, our faces are over it, but I wanted to see what that did. Ok. Q is gonna work now. So actually let's go ahead and let's install. So there's uh the Q lang um syntax highlighting uh or there's Q sheets. So Q experts, uh David and Paul, which of these extensions should I install? There's, this one has 7000 downloads. This has 2000, they both have five stars. Uh I'm gonna install Q sheets. Ok? Cool. So now, ok. So now we have our, let's see. So that should if I go back to my Jason dot Q oh Don't use Q sheets. It's for music. Oh Shit. Oops. OK. That would be why that didn't work. Let's install Q lane. That's not confusing at all. OK? Oh There we go. Now we've got our, our syntax highlighting. So now if we do right? Q exports Jason dot Q um oh ha ha ha ha ha because I named it Jason Q export. Jason. OK. So if we look at what happened there that turned our Q file into like legit Jason. OK. So that's cool. Um So that, so these objects are struck, right? And so an object member is a field. OK? So then if we think about types being values, it says, OK, so we're gonna merge, we've got uh says we've got values and types are merged into the same kind of a thing. So trying to figure out how this example works in here. Um Yeah, Paul, it's our pleasure uh to basically, you know, see what's, what's, what's going on there. So if we're gonna say types or values, so Q merges the concepts um some data, a possible schema for the data and something between a constraints. I don't really know where my example goes there. OK? So here we'll do. OK? So duplicate fields, it says this allows duplicated field definitions as long as they don't conflict. So if we go and say uh we'll, we'll make another one, we'll do uh we create our Duke dot Q. So our Q file. So we're gonna set A to four and then we're gonna also set A to four again and then s will be the two, but then we're gonna set S again, C colon two and then L 212 and then L 212. OK? So then it looks like if I say Qev of Doop dot Q, it's gonna tell me that we have conflicting values two and one. So all the values have to add. So if we were to say on line seven. Hm. Oh, because it's not sorry, that's my mistake. Those are the list. That's why it was OK. That's what we wanted to do. OK? So they, it kind of sponges them together. So because they didn't conflict, it just turns into one, right? So that's how we're able to get even though we set a multiple times as long as we set it the same. I think that's telling me that's OK. So that's validating that. Um OK, so we can set constraints, which is helpful, right? Because these are just values but there's somewhere in between, right? So I guess the idea is if we set constraints that helps us not repeat ourselves over and over again, which is always, always nice. So let's go ahead and we'll, let's create our art this one. So if we're gonna say so we said a schema. So name is a string. Age is an ant human. It's true. And we wanna say this is OK. So if we say it's always true, OK. And then Viola schema. So uh so we set name is Viola and Viola is 38. So if we want to eval this, OK. So, so there's no need to specify it to which the constraint applies. So if we've, I'm trying to, so how did we set this? And how do we say that that was the constraint when we said human is true? Oh Because we, we set it to the value. So it's always gonna be true. OK. Awesome. OK. And then we can go through. So cogeneration. Wait, let's see. OK. So, and then, OK, so there's a tutorial and maybe this is the one we'll sort of step through because having a reason to do things. Um So this is, this is my uh feedback as a learner. Um The concepts are there. But it's always, to me it's always interesting when there's a story, right? Like here's AAA beginning to end. And I think that's what this Kubernetes tutorial is gonna be like. So the Kubernetes tutorial, I'll drop that in the, in the chat, um, that I think will play, play along with here. Um So if we're gonna, we're gonna switch over to that screen for just a second. So we'll sort of look at what we're looking at. Um There it goes. OK. All right. So it says we're gonna convert Kubernetes config files. Um Yeah, we're just, I mean, David, we just might as well, let's, let's just sort of go through this uh with the uh the Kates, uh the Kate stuff. We're gonna follow this tutorial. Um So it says we're gonna convert YAML files to Q and adjust the patterns, use the tooling to rewrite the Q files. I don't think we're going to necessarily get through all of this, but I think we'll have something kind of practical. Um Yes. Now, Cooper and Q are, are, are, now we are talking. OK. So everyone's excited about this. Um Let's see. Let's uh all right. So I think what I need to do is probably pull down um because there's examples, but I don't know that I wanna to clone the Irq repot to do this, but I feel like I might have to, um let's see. So we'll switch over back over to this, let's say clone. No. Oh my God. Not, not even today. What? OK. I feel like I had this happen to me before. Um You all right, that I am um trying to figure out why I can't get cloned right now. I'm not saying that the protocol is no longer supported. OK? So this is a whole different problem that we're having, which is why can't I even do a get clone right now on my machine? All right, we'll figure it out. Um That said, yes, Alison has great headphones. Thank you. Um um hm Coding, coding, coding. Um Yeah, if I got her getting started, I'm just, I'm just trying to figure out where we're at. OK. So here's, here's where we're, where we're at. So if we go, OK, so I went into here into tutorial into Kubernetes. OK? So if we were to go here and I'm gonna, so we're in the Kubernetes directory and then if we say tree, not slash original. So OK, we can kind of see we've got some, some yaml files here, each of these subdirectory or some different micro services that we might uh have similar characteristics. Um They've got services, deployments, config maps, et cetera. So like if we sort of take a look at like um some of our Q BS, OK? So we've got a whole bunch of yams, some of this stuff is very consistent. And so it says um we're gonna create quick and then there's a manually optimized. OK. So it says first we make a copy of the data directory. OK? Wait, let me just. OK. There's the original. OK? So we're gonna see P dash a original and we'll put that into temp and we'll see the end to temp. OK? And so it says now we initialize a module uh so that we can treat all our configuration as one package. OK. So we do Q mod and net. So that's gonna initialize inside of our temp directory. OK? So now we've got our, oh, that's a directory. OK? Um And then we initialize a go module so that we can resolve. OK? So let's do go mod and knit for example dot com fun. OK? And again, if we look back at our temp, so we've got our Q mod, we have our go mod. Very exciting stuff. So this lets us uh because we created a module so we can import our all these external packages. OK? So, so we go to see the service, wait and then inside. So we're gonna say import that OK? And it says OK, since we have multiple files, we need to specify the package. OK. So Q import at dot dot dash P cube. All right. Uh And they're saying, OK, a lot of these have Oh yeah, sorry, David. Good point. Free real estate. Yeah, I gotta figure out where it is. There you go. There we go. OK. Uh And actually I'm gonna switch like that. So now you can see much more of what's going on with the screen. OK? So now it's saying OK, the problem is that we have many of our files have more, you know, all these files we have in here, they have multiple kubernetes objects. Uh And we're trying to create this single config, so we're gonna create a different data structure for each type. So we're gonna tell Q to put each object in the configuration tree, blah blah blah. OK. Let me see if I can figure out what this means here. So it says we want to do a Q import. OK? We've been doing that. That's cool. And it's gonna be cube and then springs two camel pines and then pull in the metadata name dash F OK? Let's see what happens here. So it says the dash L flag uh defines the labels for each object using Q syntax for the field labels we want camel case it. So, and it says OK, because some files already existed. So dash F will overwrite them unknown file extension to camel kind strings 0.2 camel kinds. Oh I missed the dash. Bye. I need the dash cube, dash L OK. There we go. So now if we do, if we take a look at what we have in there, now we created those two files. OK? Neat. So if we wanted to compare these, OK? So OK. So what it did here? OK. I'm starting to get this a little bit. So this took the Yamal from the cub config or the cube stuff and it created Strus um like go trucks for all of the pieces. OK? I think I get that. OK. Uh The comments of the ML file are preserved. So were there any comments in here? I don't see any in that particular example, but OK, so it says if we look at man per so if we look at the prometheus Q, OK? So it contains YAML embedded in the string value one. OK. So this is ugly. So, so the R option attempts to del del detect structured YAML and then converts them recursively. OK? So if we were to now say Q import that O dash PQ dash L springs the camel and we'll do kind again. So that doesn't change um dash L metadata name, we do dash F and dash R here comes the magic. OK? So now ah yeah, look at what just happened over here. So all of these things in here that were kind of some janky. Um Yeah, because there was that was in a string, this actually found that structured Jamal and converts it recursively. So that's cool. So now, yeah, so now if you look at sort of the data, where, where, where did that one go? Um Yeah, so a lot of this was all a big string. Yeah. Rock codes like that blew my mind the first time. That is really cool. Um, ok, so neat. Um, what's, what are you thinking about this so far? Like, I, I haven't found where I'm gonna use it yet but it sure is cool. Hm. Oh, I'm not sure. Right. Yeah, I feel like we haven't gotten to where it does something yet. I mean, it does something but I'm like, big deal. So I, I created these and I guess so it says we show how we're gonna eliminate boiler plate from a set of config. So um if we do the quick and dirty approach, you get mostly there. So this is giving us sort of this way like because again, if we're boiler plate, we're repeating the same thing over and over again, right? We're like, ok, all these con figs have a couple of things, a few things in common. Why would we want to continue to do that? So we have imported the AML files, we can start the simplification process. Good. I like simplification processes. Um Before we start, let's save a full evaluation. So we can verify, we get the same result. Ok? So when we run the eval it says this is what I would create. We wanna be able to know that as we optimize, we didn't like f something up. So we'll do oops Q Eval dash C dot slash dot dot dot And we'll put pump that into um snapshot. I can type. OK. So now we have this snapshot that, that shows us. So we could always, we could always diff against it. This is the, the, the, the output that we would, would get from a Qev. OK. So, all right. So um OK. So that c option says only concrete values that is real JSON. And we copy one of the files containing both as a basis. OK. So we're gonna take front end bread dispatcher. It's cube dot Q. We just make a copy of it. OK? So now we have that cube dot Q and cube dot Q. So we're gonna make a couple of changes to it. So, all right. Um So we have the package as Q but instead of specifying the service name, we're going to um delete that and we're gonna set ID equals that. So it's gonna be the ID, I guess it's taking uh the API version is the same. It's a service, but the name instead of bread dispatcher is going to be and we're gonna do both of these because they're the same. It's an ID. OK? And then the labels. OK. So the app would change that to ID. Just say this is by convention. OK? The domain is prod, this is always the same and then the component however, will vary. So that's we're setting it to a string and this varies depending on the directory it's in, right. OK. Doing OK. Neat. OK. So then for the speck. OK. So we're gonna say so these are the properties for the ports. Yep. OK. But then instead of we're gonna do this because it's go so we're OK. So the port, we're specifying as an in, we don't know what it's gonna be and then protocol could be TCP or UDP. And this is, this is coming from the kubernetes definition and then it's um target port 70 80. Well, except that we, I think we take that out. That's not in our spec. So, and then the name is gonna be string, but then it falls through to host our clients. OK? Then for the selector, um actually, all of this goes away because, and now it's gonna be metadata that labels and say we want these to map the same. So the labels should map to the same thing in the spec. So we don't have to say it. OK? We have the deployment. It's gonna look similar again. Um Where we're going to go ahead. I'm not sure. So there's the, the, what does the, that's the object, right? Um David or uh that's the object David or Paul just uh the, the asterisk uh where we're setting that there? I think that's, that's a, that's a because it's an object, right? Yeah. Or default. OK. That's saying that that means default in Q. OK? All right. So, oh, I lost track of our, is that my, my deployment? OK? Oh, not a colon here, that should be ID equals underscore cool the API version again, that set the metadata instead of it being uh the string though is the ID again. Um And then, so we're saying for we're gonna say default is one but however many you want it's your me. Um OK. So again to David's point now that we understand this star one, that means that's the default, but it's also just an integer that can be passed in. OK? Um That was the OK? That's in the spec OK? Right then the template. So the metadata instead of these annotations, um we actually get rid of all of this, right? So we have the labels. So metadata, wait, losing track of what I want here here. Let's do this. OK? Metadata, his labels this OK? So the app is ID, the domain is prod and the component is string. OK? Then, and then our containers spack. Um We're just gonna get rid of all of this because it says uh because we, we always have one name space container. So this is just the containers is name is ID 82222. Cool. So we've replaced the service and deployment name with ID. We've changed the definition into a template matching any field. So it says Q is gonna bind the field name to ad as results. Um So if we want to compare the result of merging them, so if we were to go now and say Q eval dash C dot dot dot dot Gonna do um we're gonna put this to snap. Ok? Ah Shot two. Let's see what happens. OK. Something's not good doesn't not like, ok. Um uh Alert manager doesn't specify a label for components. Maybe. No, that's not even my problem. I have a different problem. Um Snapshot cube dot Q 24 line 24. Oh, there we go. Ok. 35 components. OK? I am. This is my favorite part about doing these things. OK? So OK. So now this looks more like OK, incomplete value string. So it says the problem is alert manager doesn't specify um component label. So these constraints help us catch these inconsistencies. OK? There are very few objects do not specify this label. We modify the config to include them everywhere. So um set the component label to our OK. So this is OK. So we're gonna take component, OK? We're gonna replace component with that option. And then OK. So now we have this right? So uh component became at we're gonna add a new top level field to our previous uh template definition components. OK. So, so we go back up to our definition. OK. So do we put this at the, this is where I'm a little confused um add a file with a component labeled to each directory, uh component string, right? OK. Um component string. So yeah, Q language speak. Um So we've got there, you go. Ok. Ok. So now if we go ahead and run this, I don't know if this is gonna work. Ok. So it did it, and then if we do diff snapshot and snap shot two, nothing has changed. Ok. Basically. Yeah. Ok. Hm. All right. So when we're going through here, this is the thing. I'm just not 100% sure if this setting, if I, when I set the top level field, the top level this one here, I'm not sure if this is supposed to be at the end or at the beginning. Hm I can find it. Uh Hold on component string and uh we're looking for QQQQ. Uh Come on. Ok. Spring literals cure. OK. Whereabouts in the documentation do you think we should uh look on this one? Well, I'm trying to follow the um tutorial, the Kubernetes tutorial tutor. Um ok. And the tutorial goes at the, oh, it doesn't matter if it's ok. So it's in the right place. It's fine where it is. Ok, good enough. Then we're good. I just wanted to sort of make sure that I was. Ok. So we got ourselves. Um ok, so let me catch up to where we were, we kind of said, OK, the di looks good. So now, um so we like that, let's make this our new baseline. So we're gonna go ahead and just copy snapshot two to snapshot. So our snapshot that we compared to. So it says Now, if we do, we can use Q trim to get rid of all of the um boiler plate. So, so first, if we just sort of say, OK, let's do. OK. So we got a lot of that. So if we do Q trim got and then if we run this again, OK. So it removed 500 lines of configuration. OK. Not too shabby. I could dig it. OK. So then if we do Q val, I see that if we go back to our snap, just create another snapshot too and then diff snapshot WC a difference. Cool. So we like just cleared out all that. We knocked out 500 lines of config Awesome and got the same result. OK? But this is not good enough. Uh So Damon sets and state full sets have a similar structure so we can generalize that as well. So I guess if we go back to our up to here, um I guess we do it after here. Does it uh could go there? So we're gonna say, so we'll say Damon set. Oh, I can't type. OK? We're gonna do a very similar thing ID underscore Cool. And then that'll be from spec and API version apps one easy enough, right? The kind is Bayman sat. Oh, you can tell that I've not been there we go. Uh I've been writing too much uh javascript lately and not enough go that uh I'm putting too many comments in places name is the ID. Ok, cool. So we got our Damon set and do the state full set. Uh, it's also another ID spec and do, no, not you. Uh API version also apps V one and state fall type set and name is ID. Ok. Uh, I'm going to, um, not have to, I'm, I'm copying pasting this from the tutorial just because I wanna see what it does. But this looks, uh, cool. Ok, so we've got all our pieces. We did the deployment. Um Oh, actually wait a minute, let's go back. Hang on. I'm looking at at what it wants me to do there. The ok, actually our state full set and our Damon set. Let's see because we have our deployments. No, that's a little bit different. Ok. So let's go ahead and just add these down here. Cool. So now if we do a two FPs, cleans it up, so we haven't reviewed our old deployment definition because it's equivalent to the new one. So it has no problem. So we can actually get, I think that goes back to right this idea where we can have the same thing. So um all of these have a an accompanying service, it shares a lot of the same fields. So if we add this, just take a look. Ok, cool. Um So the spec is there and then it just spins through all the deployments, all the data sets and then it goes ahead and creates the service. So what's interesting to me is this is, this feels very much of similar reasons why I like Pulumi, right? Because this is, we're, we're doing a different thing with this, but we're using a programming language so we can, you know, we're actually writing stuff that lets us do conditionals and loops and factoring through that. Um And then let's do our fun Kump, clean up our mess. So, um OK. So it says like open ended lists, we kind of talked about this before with the ports one. So that's the ellipses. Um It says a port declaration is an alias. So alias is only visible and Liston field. OK. So if we now go ahead um specifying the target port is not necessary, but many files define it, defining it here will allow those definitions to be removed using Q trim. So where there's a few things that it's just uh OK. So in infra where to go Infra events, um it says if we add a deployment spec at the end like this, that's fine. And then if we go into the tasks, coup dot Q, these are just a couple of patches to these files that it's recommending. And then we add this similar deployment to the watcher, ok. Uh And then we can verify. So now if we do Q trim dot dot dot dot Oh, reference id, not found. OK. Uh That's in this one, right? And Damon set missing equal sign in the Oh, yeah. Yeah. There you go. Ok. So then we did our Q trim and let's see if we go ahead and do this. Now we took off another 100 lines and we can verify. Ok. Another trick is, oh, there's a simplify option. We can tell trim or thumped to collapse the structures into a single line. Ok. So if we do Q trim dot dot dot dot With dash S, oh I know. Ok. Hang on. This is why it wants us so we can compare them. So if we just compare front end red dispatcher, cube dot Q oops, that's just so we'll just remember what this looked like before. Ok. Now we're gonna do cube oops Q that cube um or uh or Q trim dot dot dot dot dash S and if we go look at it now, yep, that deployment, it sort of collapsed it down. So, yeah, so I've been doing a lot of typing and talking um Alison like how does, what's resonating to you or what do you, what do you, what are you thinking? Uh I'm thinking that we've got a bread dispatcher here. This, this dispatcher or bread is going to be flinging the bread somewhere along the line. You know, Prometheus is gonna come scrape through. Um We've got a port 70 80. Um You know, uh what else do we got? Um I'm just trying to try to piece it together. Um we, we rusty but that's OK. You know. What do you, you know? Uh Yeah, I, I, yeah, what please uh I, I think what makes sense to me in this case is again, like you're gonna have this scenario where we create all this yaml for all this stuff. And it's like a lot of like when we've been going through this, we, we had all this stuff that was really consistent that you were just sort of copy pasting over and over and over again. So it's letting us template for that. Um But more so than that, like we can create validations, right? And definition. So I think if we have to create all these uh YAML files that's letting us uh build at that. And again, it's almost like being able to treat Yamal our config as objects, right? Like, so I can see how this is good. I, I'd love to hear in the chat like Paul, uh who I know works on that team. Like, what are, what are some of the things you're seeing people do that are interesting with, with Q? Like, what's, what are some of the, the neat use cases and David Rock code? I know you're excited about it. Like you at almost any given time, like rock code is doing something cool with something. So I'd love to know like, what's, what's the real world use case in the real world of rock code um that you've been been doing stuff with um and I'm also interested to sort of think about like how this does could connect with Pulumi, right? Because it's, it's not the exact same use case, you know, um it's solving a similar problem but differently and again, it also doesn't have to be about infra code, right? Like I think you could think about it as um yeah, it's schema and data, right? Like, like any way that we want to validate. OK. So like data, like we didn't really talk about like data validation or validating a schema um where that, that could come in? Interesting. OK. Hm. Where validating your schema could come in, I mean, validate the templating, templating. Uh hm I'm not too sure. Hm. OK. Well, I think like even when you're defining an API right, you know, it's giving you that, that ability to oh cut off your link doesn't let you post in links there. David. David, you can slack it to me if you want. No, but in the chat. Um OK. Q blocks. Um but youtube like OK. So a lot of people use Q to progressively validate data and data schema for that data. So um so like OK, this is, this is I'm I'm sort of looking at, at something where we're talking about uh open API, right? So if you're talking about open API, you are defining it in pure Json. Um So that's cool. But it's super duper verbose. So if I'm defining it in Q, it's easier to write that and then it'll generate the open API Jason that everything needs to consume. But I don't have to sit and write all this stuff. Uh a database for static files. Oh Think of static websites. I have a static database based on Yael markdown and Jason. Interesting. Um And then, you know, um what, what lost my window. I'll put this in the chat but also um the Q blocks. I'm curious about this is this like a Roblox thing? I feel like it should be, I'll be more interested if it is, can, can we run Cubin inside Roblox? No, can we can we do Cuban Roblox? This is much less, this is much less interesting than if it was uh a Roblox thing. It is a set of tools that allows you to create and consume data sets from YAML or mark down files. Oh So this is Q blocks is, is what David was talking about was the database for static files. I think so. OK. Uh Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. OK. Well, this is cool. Uh It's a set of tools that allow us to create and consume data sets from YAML markdown files. So you can kind of grab a YAML right now from create data sets, create a set of data. Yeah. OK. Oh OK. And so Rock Academy. OK. Yeah. So little shout out there. OK. This is cool. Um Well, this has been, this has been fun and interesting and I'm gonna have to figure out some, some ways to play with this. And if you find that the devops Stay website suddenly uses Q blocks as its back end instead of Hugo, you'll know why. And Illinois everybody in the entire Devops organizer community. Um Alison, what's uh you got any cool stuff coming up uh to share with people, any, any streams or talks and conferences? Um Not at this time, but stay posted. You know, this is, uh this has been really good. Thank you so much, Maddie. Uh Really, you know, it was really good getting on here and like, you know, learning something new. Yeah, it was, it was sort of fun to sort of just mess around. Um We have a, uh coming up on, I believe it's on Tuesday at around the same time uh because coup coupon is coming in in May and coupon. Eu. And so I've actually, I'll be joined uh here on the Pulumi Vision stream by Paris Pitman who's in the Cobert East steering committee. And we're just gonna kind of talk about what might be coming up. That's fun at, at Coupon. And we do have, uh you know, if you're make sure you, you know, push that subscribe button or follow button or whatever the thing is for, for the stream uh in the way that you're consuming it and would always love to hear about uh topics uh for future streams. So, but it's been my absolute pleasure, Alison to have you join me, everybody who joined in. Uh Paul, thanks for all the, uh the advice and input David for, you know, helping us out and engine. Always, always great to see you in the chat and everybody else. So, uh until then we'll see you on the internet. All right. See you.

---
