---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Breaking down Dev and DevOps silos"
title: "Breaking down Dev and DevOps silos"
meta_desc: |
    Part 2 of our Feb 21 meetup: Dinesh Ramamurthy, Engineering Manager, Mercedes Benz R&D, talks about his team's experience with Pulumi.
url_slug: breaking-down-dev-devops-silos
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Breaking down Dev and DevOps silos"
  description: |
    Part 2 of our Feb 21 meetup: Dinesh Ramamurthy, Engineering Manager, Mercedes Benz R&D, talks about his team's experience with Pulumi.
  sortable_date: 2019-02-25T21:00:18Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/5VExXUdQNSE
transcript: |
    I thank you. Um So, so many of the non Polone folks actually know that cities Ben has an R and D office here in Seattle. I see. Yeah, we've been here for about um 18 months or so and it's actually feel a, a little bit of nostalgia here. Looking at the, moving into a new space. We had a very, very similar journey. We started out in a very small coworking space based on the Bell. I'm one of the early employees over nine. So now we are up to like 70 we moved about a year ago to a very nice space right across from Harte. And uh I mean, it's been a great journey and uh you know, we've been working with Pulumi, so we just wanted to share our experience. Um Just a little bit about myself. Uh My name is Dash Ray. I'm one of the engineering managers of the Mercedes Benz R in Seattle. Uh I work for the, you know, large enterprises and startups and it's uh it's really fascinating to see how the infrastructure space has evolved, right? I mean, uh uh back then when I started my career, I still remember, like Square was very center based. Uh we used to have uh you know, completely different teams, infrastructure and are responsible for infrastructure. Um you know, completely separate teams. If you want to provide a certain piece of infrastructure, had to go through like a a very lengthy process to infrastructure and really had no visibility to the kind of infrastructure that was being provision. And then, and then once the cloud era started, it was still, you know, very virtual machine based, right? And then you had um some uh configuration management and infrastructure automation solutions like shelf and then uh once you go out, got into like once talk came about things got really exciting. Now you got, you got into like infrastructure and then um started getting more and more manage services and that really helped our teams to form more of uh you know, s model if you will, where they can actually take complete ownership of not just the applications, but also the infrastructure that they build. Um So this is just, you know, I'm also going to talk a little bit about our, our journey as well um in terms of infrastructure and what we are really trying to achieve here and the Seattle hub and how uh products and you know, partnerships with companies like may know, as helping us out. Um I wanna start with a little bit of introduction about the Seattle hub. Um So we've been around for less than a couple of years. Even though we are a research and development hub, our core focuses on development. So we wanna be, we be focusing on developing um high quality cloud based connected car features for the Mercedes Benz car. And uh one of the big reasons for picking, you know, Seattle as a location for the R and D center and just to take advantage of the rich ecosystem here, right, all the major cloud providers are based out of Seattle. In addition to club, you already have some really exciting startups in the infrastructure and the cloud space like. And the other reason is just the amount of uh cloud based experience, the skill set that's out here. So that's really helping us build a very strong team mode here in. Um So if you go to our website, you'll see this quote by our, you know CEO which is uh talks about case, which is like the four pillar pillars of time, you know, connected autonomous shat services and electric. Um in the help you focus more on uh you know, building connected car services, but also like building out uh uh you know, the platform level components and uh infrastructure, automation and cloud based architecture that can be leveraged by the rest of the company and my services. I mean, any service that um you know, examples of services are services that actually control remote functionality like your remote engine standard and staff or to unlock and unlock or it could be sources that actually power someone the head unit application. We have a very good mix of technologies. This is just to highlight some of the important technologies we use. Uh We are Azure based. Uh So you'll actually get to see an example of Pulumi. Um with Azure, you saw an eeks example, we'll be spinning up an A TS cluster. Uh We can all our applications and yeah, yeah, we are like just like most of the companies here, we are doubling down on com. Uh We use health for our employment. Um Most of our applications are Java based. We use Sprint. We have a lot of, I don't want to call it legacy but slightly older applications that they use um spring board and with the Netflix or so. So with that, we also have a little bit of interesting challenges where you know, Netflix has its own source discovery configuration management solutions. And now when you move into the companies and the cloud world, you have like cloud cloud native and solutions. So we do run into challenges of how, how how do we know how do we move away from this lexis stack into more of the cloud need stack. And as a team, we are very passionate about the infrastructure, we are big into manage services. It really helps us focus our efforts on just building features that add value to our customers. And so we have a pretty, you know, pretty, pretty strong infrastructure engineer team, engineering team and their core focus is uh really infrastructure automation. Um I wanna ask you to maybe talk a little bit more about the infrastructure team. And uh thanks today. Um Everyone. Uh my name is um I joined Mercedes about uh eight months back and it was fun and pretty exciting with all the cool things that's going on out there. Um I'm part of the infrastructure engineering team at me. Um um what we really focus on is building all the infrastructure for all the banking services that was talking about, you know, that's our charter. We're trying to get it out there. I'm a big analyst, we're trying to create the country around the company, you know, to have a lot of focused initiatives, you know, have a lot of CC A, you know, things of that sort. Um Another thing that he rested upon was um we are sort of, you know, getting the teams to this tactic in terms of ownership of their services, right? So if I'm on the engineering, if I'm on, if I'm the engineering team and I own like a servers or a bunch of services, you know, that I own the code, I want the, the CS CD portion of it, I want the deployment, I want the maintenance, I want everything right. But uh what the infrastructure engineering team does is, you know, we provide them mans and such, you know what I mean? Which makes it like easier to do certain things, certain, right? I mean, we, we do a lot of automation and then they become the consumers of those, you know, that try and execute what they want to do, you know, in, in whichever way they want. Um I can throw a quick example and say, for example, you know, um I need to use like a post service or something like that, right? I mean, as part of my service, right, let's say post manage service, you know, that I want to think uh what the infrastructure engine internet does is it creates the modules, you know, that it keeps, we have a bunch of libraries for the teams to consume, you know, that they can make it as part of their pipeline, they can check to see, you know, hey, this service exists and I can go ahead with my deployment. If not, I can use these modules, you know, that get it out and um get things right? Um Of course, we started using Terraform and we have a lot of telephone modules, you know, to do that. But uh like I was talking about and uh um we are still in the process of, you know, converting a lot of our um our modules, existing modules with, you know, to and you know, having people consume the disadvantage being like all the folks spoke about as well how the whole programming language, you know, a lot easier for people, um, you know, start using it, you know, and then they, and then changes and that sort of thing. Um, but we are also the infrastructure development engine team also focuses on a lot of uh uh guidelines and rules and, you know, I mean, how we want to get things done, you know, sort of like give you the, uh, the baseline best practices, that sort of the thing. Um I think we try to art everything, you know, that give the people so that they can continue and, you know, I mean, start using it. We had a nice demo coming out from Jeremy, you know, who can show us what we've been doing, how our sector is live and what we are trying to do. Uh So I don't think I'm gonna take much time on it. It could be situation. So, so she talked about this team, right? So, uh one interesting problem that we face is uh how do we actually scale all of this? Um Like just to give a little bit of background about how a company like Dangler works. It's, it's, I think it's uh I think it's very similar to many large enterprises. So we have uh has some, you know, development teams all across the globe. In a few, we have a hub in Seattle. We have the army hub is headquartered in Sunnyvale, Sunnyvale. We have their teams there, we have their teams in Germany in different parts of Germany and also partners with multiple vendors. And you know, you have at least a dozen different vendors who actually work on a bunch of features. We have hubs in India. So now that here in Seattle, we would like to build cloud platform level services and also we build usable infrastructure components. The easiest way to scale this is like, you know, we just provide more to maybe a little bit of tools and self service API and let teams, you know, leverage it and take ownership. Uh But with most of the existing infrastructure core technology, there's still like, you know, a little bit of silo, it's like uh it's what we really expect teams to do is, let's say, for example, if a cloud provider, for example, publishes uh a new service and let's say, for example, we don't want a module for the scale. The easiest you know, scalable approach for us would be if a dev team wants a new module, they will just create a pull request and submit it to our modules or post and our engineer team will review it and approve it. And now we have, we have a new module, any other team can use it, but there's still like, you know, you know, a value of entry for, for, for, for doing that for a lot of the development teams using traditional infrastructure sharing tools. Uh That's been like you know, um last year, you know, this showed up in my I read about and I was, I was super excited about it and I shared this article with, with my colleague Jason who is manages infrastructure engineering team and he was very excited as well. So this is something that we, we were all like, you know, looking for, like how do we actually like uh provide something that will be easier for their teams to use and also contribute back and uh provides a great answer just by providing all these API S and regular programming languages, right? Uh In addition to that, uh when you use languages like types two, you also get type safety for your infrastructure COD, which is again a very cool feature. Um So, so we, we, we talk to the Pulumi team and we wanted to start uh start by just, you know, doing some sandbox thing and doing a proof of concept. So, so we have, you know, we, we, we have what we call like a blueprint for uh for, let's say, for example, a specific environment, let's say a Devon environment or a state or an Indian environment, we have few standard components. So this would be like a very simplified example blueprint by we have a net, we create subnets, we have a core in a core uh resource, there would be like a piece cluster. And uh if the service is deployed to the cluster, they use mass databases. It would be, you know, we might have some post plus databases or TV. Uh if they want to expose API S and if they want to leverage the API management services of A API management, we, we will do that and you know, we spin up an A container registry. So we wanted to work with Pulumi and uh you know, take all these blueprints and actually use Pulumi for spinning up uh our infrastructure and uh Chinese is actually gonna show a demo of uh of a sample blueprint. Mr Reason that I'm actually just get this started now because it's gonna take a few minutes um switch over here and how big your ass to blow this up. Uh This is, can you guys see that? Ok. It's good. Good. Ok. Oh Maybe I should introduce myself for some, I'm Jeremy Peterson. I work uh on the uh infrastructure engineering team. Um And uh so I, I was kind of involved in the um evaluation of plumbing and uh and reporting so work our modules over. Um And it's been uh it's been a lot of fun to work with. Um So let me just uh you deserted. I scripted this because I made live demos because all kinds of things goes wrong and I really bad at typing. So uh Kudos to Mike, uh he went through a lot of stuff and pretty smoothly. So we'll uh what we're gonna do here is it's a little bit different than the, uh, the blueprint that, uh, that Dinesh was just showing. Um, but it's, uh, it's just gonna set up a few virtual networks, uh, set up an A KS cluster and, uh, hopefully this goes fairly quickly. So, um, well, that's running. Um, you can see right now, there's nothing there, there will be soon. Um, I want to talk a little bit about, uh, kind of our experience with Pulumi. And um a lot of this is we're probably gonna be uh it's gonna be probably maybe a watered down version of some of the stuff that Mike already talked about. Um And not as much stuff either. We'll stop it, uh We'll stop at the infrastructure there. So, um so um so what is polling? Well, I'm not gonna explain it as eloquently as Mike did, but um we like to think of it as the evolution of infrastructure as code um among other things, uh Pulumi abstracts, cloud specific interfaces uh in the common language and it accounts for resource dependencies during deployment and tear down and manages records of your infrastructure state. So a lot like terraform does, but it does a lot more than that. Um So it does, it handles the fundamental problems inherent uh automated provisioning. It makes it uh it makes it a lot easier to write reliable infrastructure code. Um So, and you can see here, I, I actually stole this uh uh from Columbia guys or architecture slide. Um So uh uh Pulumi has libraries for cloud infrastructure providers, s provider and the Pulumi cloud framework in your choice of go javascript typescript or Python. So you get infrastructure container orchestration and application logic all from a single development platform and with the power of mature programming languages at your disposal. So why do we like Halloumi? Well, like uh Dinesh and were talking about earlier. Uh We like to encourage uh our, our deaf teams to be involved and enable them to write the infrastructure code. Uh So, you know, being able to use a familiar high level program programming language uh makes that a lot easier for them. Um as supposed to, you know, some of the more uh you know, kind of operation specific tools. Um So that's, that's kind of a big plus um for us and I'm actually quite obviously reading those off my phone uh since I can't see them on the uh I'm sorry. Um ok. So um so we've been writing our uh our report card code and typescript and uh uh just the uh the type safety and auto completion alone just makes for a first class development experience. Um So uh uh also being able to leverage package managers and ease of access to uh cloud providers. API S and seks and other powerful tools um makes for allows for seamless integration of custom solutions. I think a lot like Mike was saying earlier and I'm sure a lot of you have experienced, you know, nothing ever really works out of the box, right? There's always, you know, you're kind of at the mercy of the, you know, the interfaces of the cloud provider. Uh you know, while you're waiting on bug fix or feature request, you know, you need to get something working today, right? You can't let that slow you down. Um So, uh you know, our experiences with other tools, uh it's been awkward and painful to implement some of these custom work arounds. Whereas with pollute, it's just, you know, it's really easy. I mean, it's just right there. Um So, uh hopefully, uh hopefully this demo is finish soon because I'm almost done uh talking here. Um So, I mean, this, this all results in, you know, more concise, maintainable account code and uh increased productivity. Um So that's really the, you know, the thing that uh where, where Pulumi really shines from my experience. So I'm, I'm definitely happy that we discovered Pulumi and I'm looking forward to in the future. So let's go see where this is at. And probably you have a, yeah, I had a question regarding that. Um So with plu obviously, you get a lot of flexibility and freedom. Have you found with junior devs maybe some divergence of code and conflicts arise because of that freedom because with terra form, uh we deal with a lot of clients that have some people haven't touched cloud at all. Some people have, um, and we have a very laid out strict way of handling Terraform. Right. With Pulumi, do you feel like with having such a diverse DEV team that you can come into conflict? I think, with no matter what you're working with, if you don't have policies in place, then you run that risk. Uh, I've seen the same thing with terraform. But, uh, yeah. Well, that's, you know, so, uh no, I don't feel like it's any different with, it's all setting standards, like just like in your software development process, you need to make sure you have standards in place and of course, as part of your, your request process, you need to make sure that, uh you mean if you, you feel that it doesn't fall within the, within your standards and just said, you know, maybe you could call the. Ok, cool. Yeah, I was just curious if there's any pain point. Let's also, you know, it's more of like, what is it that you want people to create? Right? I mean, like you're not gonna let them create like players and stuff, right? Because that's gonna mess up the whole way how it started, right? So it's like, hey, you please, you have this environment that we have given to you but go ahead and use for like service and stuff, right? I mean, that's a great start for people, you know, it's like we don't have to tell you what, let's say you want like a S PB or something, right? And we don't have to tell you what it is. Go ahead, feel free with it, create a module consumer, see how it works, you know, and then go with it right? For people to go. Cool. Yeah, that's one thing that worried me. But um yeah, so I'm really interested to see how this from a consumer standpoint is gonna work out with such a very, you know, diverse team, but it seems to handle it pretty well. So, thank you. Yeah, yeah, that is just, you know, because you're, you know, rather than using some kind of uh uh you know, uh the specific language and you just, you know, program in your regular style, you can add your own error handling. Um So that's a great advantage. And yeah, that's great. Obviously they get safe, we can work. This is uh I would actually make it um quite a bit safer for you, your wife. Yes, because powerful modules don't really provided an abstraction around like they're not really reusable components, they're like modules which tend to either be so flexible that you have to send every value anyway or so inflexible that they only do one thing and you end up with copy and paste, sorry that, that it wasn't me. But uh but because because you can do sort of proper abstraction with pluming, you know, create classes, create enumerations of safe configuration values and restrict what people can create and then publish these things and packages that you can kind of restrain what people do it just by um just like better abstraction, the existing process to run these languages. So like if you want to write texture of letters than failed compilation construction program, when someone does something bad, right? You can look at that level, you analyze our level is all, all sorts of but uh yes, be an actual, right? I just wanted to hear. So the the other thing is that we also have access so you can set things. OK. So going back to my presentation, have certain status of the network later and you're like, hey, only my networks experts can mess with me in DC settings or uh you can sort of be at your junior desk for messing key security settings or key set by using role based access control may stay at the application level thing. And so we got, you got the biggest in terms of you don't want anybody, we don't want like the de teams to, to mess with our net or BBC configure that has to be said in a certain way, you know, we might have like for example, DPN connection to media data center, for example. So we don't want people to mess with the with the really the low level layers. But we do want to enable developers just to spin for example, managed services, deploy the applications, managing the network layer with as well. Um So like you say, you don't want developers managing, you know, now we're not managing me being able to alter, alter the network. So it's like, all right now, just so Pulumi is something, you know, it's a bigger so far. Um We started with the proof of concept, we really like it. Um So we're also encouraging developers to work on it. So we, we have really, you know, completely ordered over. It's more like we have like tax money for Scotland and we are seeing a lot of advantages and you compare to the debate as the way we manage I were to list doesn't matter. Um Yeah. Well, no, I mean, if there's one thing that comes to mind, right? Anyway, I mean, if anybody that's used their farm, you know, I mean, with the States, the way the state management happens there, I mean, at some point in their life in contact things, getting me up. Right. I mean, so it's like you like the whole infrastructure, you know, that dictated and that kind of thing. I, I like the, what told me behind the right uh is that you can import the, the same information that they could use of and stuff, you know, and then you can actually play the and say, hey, maybe this information so just need it, you know, then I it back, you know, to the state file, you know, that area. So your, your state information is so 1% or something like that. Right. But anyway, that is like a cool feature. You know, the second thing is the commercial nature of the court, right? I mean, in telephone you have like, we have an architecture, we can have like, we don't want to each other, we don't want to be, you know, that bunch of other actually look like we didn't want to be, be creating etcetera, right? The I mean, the court is going to be like watch one, right? I mean, you're going to see like, you know, hey, you be pass up and be there, see 100. So then I gave you some review like spectacular. I mean, it's like what was like 100 likes or similar, like just a few lights this mag, you know, and people they just come and know that the and you know, the, the complete and stuff that Michael stand about, I mean, very easy to do that. Hey, I'll take that BBC, you know, that you can tell me what, what, you know, I mean, I can go so some of what was interesting on me that I saw, which is like so painful if you are entering into the telephone, right? I mean, you have to know what you're doing there otherwise, you know, I mean, it's like that's the thing, of course uh and how much smaller. Mhm. The place blueprint was could before something crazy. There was one in particular. So here's a use case that makes pathological. And if you're in Azure and you want an instance, so you want a module maxed out with disks, right? So let's say you want, you know, if you say, let say the small, small and large instances and a small instance can have two discs and a large instance can have 10 discs in terraform the disks attached to an instance of nested blocks on the instance resource. So you suddenly can't have one resource that's capable of every machine size you have to know. So OK, so you can have 248, 16 32 this or you have to have a complete different set of resources which then propagates everywhere because the naming is different. Whereas with Colombia, it's like a, you know, do a new disc and it was done. Yeah, I I don't remember off the top of my head but uh but I think it was something like the, the terraform equivalent was something like four times as many lines of the road. So especially especially for like in a VM based infrastructure where it gets more complex with manage services. It's simple, you have like really nice and clean modules, you just parameterize them. But when you have, when you go into the VM space, it just gets uh you have like different kinds of V MS. It gets uh gets Miss Miss Um Let me just, if you wanna just quickly go to data, just to sort of sure. Um So I actually switched branches here. So we uh we're actually uh added a whole bunch more modules. Um So uh now I gotta find that I, I was gonna look at the uh A KS module because that was kind of the simplest example. Uh So you can see here for example, like this actually consumes this uh uh uses so properties of the, the network module because that's where we want to put our clusters and our tier two that um so it's really simple to do that. Um So, and we can actually uh look at the A KS module itself um far away. And again, so we have uh uh component resources or super class. Um uh because we wanna, you know, put it in its own uh resource group. Um And uh so there's the what? All right. Um Yeah, so here's the cluster definition pretty straightforward. Um And that's it. So really, um you know, you can do a lot with very few lines of code with plume whereas uh you know, with some of the stuff that, that we've done with terra farm, uh it gets pretty old. Some of our Terra farm modules are really long. So uh and then, so can I ask you a question? Yeah. Yeah, sure. So, pair of lights in a way. Um But I'm curious care for main have a comparison that you might be able to make there, I would say is much more, um, care for. Uh, if you look at some of the, some of the workarounds that we've had in, uh, and some of the crazy one liners and like, I only the person that wrote the module knows how to fix it. Right. Um, whereas with the bloomy stuff, you know, it's pretty easy if you know, uh typescripts to, to see what it, what it does, right? Um So yeah, uh and just, uh you know, a lot of these, uh a lot of, a lot of the, the Pulumi code has the same work arounds, but it's very straightforward into it in the way they're implemented as opposed to a terra form. You know, sometimes you're just kind of wrapping a, a shell script or something to do it for you, right? Um We actually have, I think when we were uh when we were writing our module for um uh API management service, the A API management service, uh that resource didn't actually exist in the chair provider. Um So we ended up writing uh uh just a, a rest API wrapper in Python for it and then just wrapping that care form. Um So um where as if you look at the equivalent module, it's a lot. Thanks for more straightforward. So I'm gonna show you what this might look like, but I won't actually start it because I would like to go home at some point tonight. I'm sure you machine now. Uh it's been switched off all the time. So you can see there are existing resources are left untouched and it will just add 60 60 more resources on top of that. So, and you've already seen, you know, what the details look like. So I won't uh I won't go into that. Um So yeah, um I mean, we've, we've also done a lot of testing around uh just reliability, right? Um We do nightly bills and care um to compare, you know, how much time the equivalent Terraform code would take to do it. Um And you know, Pulumi is about the same amount of time and I would say it's probably even more reliable just because it's better written. Um So uh yeah, I I, well, I think it's uh I definitely am looking forward to the day when we fully switch over personally because I uh I definitely prefer working with over the area where, you know, for example, for enterprises like us, I mean, release all the enterprise features, right? Enterprises that's been around for a while. It's been a more, it's a more mature product. It has a really nice work built. And we we been working with the Pulumi team sharing out feedback and that they, they also have a lot of those features on their road road map. So there is one distinct advantage of terraform, just the fact, they've been around for long, they've been working with local enterprises. They are much larger communities. So they are a lot more uh if you go to the enterprise level and not using just open source terraform, if you use their enterprise features, they uh you know, they, it's a more mature problem then adding the container orchestration stuff on top of that. Like I, I can't tell you the amount of blue that I've written around waiting for, you know, ingress controllers to pick up their IP addresses and stuff like that, just making sure that everything is actually ready to go uh which I think would be a lot easier to do in them with the shell script or you know, what have you question? Yeah, actually for you. Um Is there plans to support powershell? Powershell is the language of? Yeah. Uh So there are not plans right now. So uh we have a community uh effort to try to act providers. That's probably the next the language we do. Um So once we have that you can imagine about projecting it in powershell, but it's like I would love to talk to you later about like what we would imagine that would look like for me like number one co which powers Yeah. Uh The one thing that we do, there's actually some folks in partial figure. So I think somebody wrote a like a powershell cap completion plug in for all rushing a lot cross language stories about. Uh today, you write, if you put it in Python, you can't consume it from, for example, or vice versa. Um And we have a lot of useful components and we want to be able to share those across languages. So I'm Sean right now is working on a new approach of multi language that not only will help for those scenarios but also may bring up new languages. And much more, the goal is there will be a very small core run time that you would implement in your language. And then you would have access to the entire ecosystem of packages authored in whatever language. So the interface for the Python would look quite a bit different than what you saw in the demo. Yeah, so we, we in all of our language projections, we go way out of the way to make it look idiomatic in your language of choice. And so it will look Python, you know, have casing instead of being, you know, camel casing. And um and definitely we, we, we're architect it so that we can customize and tailor it per language. But that out of the box, you'll get a good experience. OK. Ironically, we don't have that. So we did have something for uh like a pro so there's one program that's ever been deployed to using. So I wanna thank uh the home team, you guys, sir. Um So we'll stick around um anyone in purple or anyone else to just to socialize those more beer or pizza or salad or, uh, warm salad or, or cold pizza and plenty more beer in the fridge. But we're happy to take other questions or I think it's pretty successful to get feedback and feel free to, uh, join the on, uh, in the, uh, um, plume plume community, uh slide channel, um, or just send us an email tweet us or whatever the kids do these days, you can't Snapchat us. But just so, but thanks again for talking about.

---
