---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Upcoming News, Pulumi UP and Q&A | April 2022 | Pulumi Office Hours"
title: "Upcoming News, Pulumi UP and Q&A | April 2022 | Pulumi..."
meta_desc: |
    On this session of Pulumi Office Hours, David, Lee and Susan discuss:
url_slug: upcoming-news-pulumi-up-qa-april-2022-pulumi-office-hours
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Upcoming News, Pulumi UP and Q&A | April 2022 | Pulumi Office Hours"
  description: |
    On this session of Pulumi Office Hours, David, Lee and Susan discuss: ►  UX team new usability studies. They are looking for feedback ►  Pulumi UP May 4th. Watch on-demand: https://www.pulumi.com/pulumi-up/ ►  Q&A. Find it below in chapters or search in https://archive.pulumi.com/ ► Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  📑 Chapters: 00:00 Introduction 01:30 Code of Conduct 02:13 User Experience 08:26 Pulumi UP (now available on-demand) 13:42 Q&A - Is It possible to render Kubernetes YAML with Pulumi? 18:19 Q&A - Are there any examples for alternatives to a huge main func? 21:56 Q&A - Is it possible to publish a TS Pulumi project to NPM? If so, is there any tutorial? 24:46 Q&A - Is there a way to have Pulumi use Yarn out of the gate rather than have it bootstrap an initial project with NPM? 26:44 Q&A - Can you use StackReference without using Pulumi backend? What would I use as the unique stack name? 29:53 Q&A - so Component Hub like CDK's construct hub? 31:19 Final words.
  sortable_date: 2022-05-03T04:08:39Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/xly6pNvD538
transcript: |
    Hello, hello. Hello. All right, welcome to Pulumi first officers or at least the first officers in a very long time. My name is David Flanagan. You may know me as rock across the internet and I am joined by two of my wonderful colleagues, Lee and Hello there. How are you both? Good, great. Thanks. Thanks for having us. No, my pleasure. Thank you both for joining me. Uh Would you both like to start off with a little introduction to our audience? Sure. Uh I'll go first. Um So you may have seen me around the community slack. Um I work on the solutions engineering team now, so uh mainly helping our customers achieve their cloud goals with Pulumi uh helping them do implementation, helping them understand the product and helping them build awesome cloud architecture with the many myriad features that Pulumi has. Cool. Uh I'm Susan Eileen, the user experience team at Pulumi. It's a cross-disciplinary team of designers and engineers. Uh We work across all Pulumi features. We do user research and design work and implementation. Uh I'm also fairly active in select uh Susan EV is my name. Awesome. Thank you, Bill. All right. Before we kick things off today, I am going to cover first our code of conduct. So this is a Pulumi TV live stream and as such is bound by the code of conduct that we use on the main Pulumi repository. I won't read this verbatim, but you can find it at github dot com slash Pulumi slash Pulumi and the code of conduct Markow file. Uh In short, please just be kind to each other, especially in the comments and to our hosts here. If you have any doubts about anything that you're uncomfortable about, there is uh an email address down the bottom code of contact at PMA dot com where you can reach out and let us know and we will handle that. Who's all right? So we're gonna start off today by getting to know Susan a little bit more and talking about user experience at Pulumi. So would you like to kinda start us off by telling us a little bit about what the roles and responsibilities for user experience are and what you get up to? Sure, uh the roles of respon areas of responsibility is pretty vast, but we are interested in the entire user experience of using Pulumi from installation from the get started guys from U consulting the docs uh to, to using the cli um and using the service, we work across all the features. Um And our work is guided by user research. We just did a round of interviews last week and we're gonna start up feasibility studies soon. Um Yeah. And our goal really is to help solve user problems and make things better for everybody. What are some of the interest and challenges then that you've kind of discovered or, or tried to solve as part of your user experience working there? What are the interesting challenges? I guess there been anything that you've just been like, wow, this is a really common problem and a really easy fix or do you find that things are more than that? Like, I'm really curious. Yeah, I should have probably prepared these questions ahead of time. Um We've had a mix of like, uh we have identified things that are pretty significantly painful and we could just do a small fix to make it better versus having to totally redesign things or rethink things. Um In general, we work best if we can kind of be included when we're first talking about the problem. So we can kind of raise problems and ask questions and involve users. Um I don't know. I'm kind of hand waving, answering the question. I'm sorry. No. Uh, it, it's, it's a good, it's, it's just nice to kind of understand and, and kind of appreciate the work that goes on here because, you know, Pulumi is a cli tool. It's the size of a web application. It's uh all these providers, some of them are parties, some of the third parties like the, the landscape of your average Pulumi uh customer user, et cetera touches it. It's quite, which, I mean, probably puts quite a lot on a user experience, I would imagine. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I can, I can share a couple of specific things um in general. Yes. Like the whole team is very interested in how people move between the different features, why they choose to move between them and how we clearly communicate, like why they're moving between them. And that's something like we're actively working to make better now. Um from the cli perspective, like we are interested in like are users getting feedback. So they know what's going on when things go wrong? Are they given good information about how to fix it and where the problem lies those kinds of things. Um in the service right now, we're actively working on the dashboard that exists there. Um And that's what we did our interviews for. Um And we identified uh a number of pain points around like who the dashboard is for, what type of users are benefiting from it. And we're more than likely gonna be overhauling those to either have separate dashboards depending on your role or being able to like customize where you land when you log into the service. And then another thing we're actively working on now is the service navigation which is actually extremely painful. Um It's really difficult to know where you are. Uh We hide and show navigation. Uh It's pretty difficult. Most users who are taking an action in Pulumi and then going to the service, wanna get to the update and then answer a question about the update that they ran. Like, look at the resources do things there, but it's actually fairly difficult to get there. Um And you don't even know that that navigation exists until you've gone multiple levels in. So we're gonna be pulling a lot of that out so people can get to where they need to quickly and answer their questions quickly um within and still understand the context that they're within. Uh Is any of that helpful? Yeah, definitely. I think actually the three of us here all work on different teams, but we all are kind of trying to solve a very common problem which is listening to our customers and our users understanding where their frustrations are and, and trying to do our best to make their lives a little bit easier. You know, Lee, you're working on the solution engineering, sales engineering, you're working with customers day in day out. Right. And I guess you're probably hearing a lot of frustrations that those customers have and being able to share them and provide a feedback cycle between user experience. I did. So I work with a different type of customer, but still people use them for me as well. Really? Uh I never really thought about that before we scheduled our first office hours but we all, we're all trying to achieve a similar goal, which is kind of cool. Yeah, I think um my, my approach is more tactical. Um like how can I help you get where you need to be right now? And I think uh having the user experience team is a more, um you know, long term vision, long term goal thing, which I think means we're going to be continuously driving towards a better user experience. Um We don't want you to be frustrated now and we also want things to get better over time. And I think those, those two combinations really show why, how much we care about user experience here at Pulumi. I think, you know, first attempt, first opportunity to drop the um uh the event on Wednesday. But a lot of the, a lot of the stuff that we're going to be announcing this week is based on user feedback. Um And, you know, we've, we really listen to the users to make sure that we uh are kind of incorporating things into their everyday experience to, to make things better. Yes. All right. Well, you mentioned that we have an event on, is it, is it Wednesday? Yeah, Wednesday is you may have heard about it. Um uh Let me pull that up here. So we have Pulumi up the cloud awakens on May the fourth and the So, yeah, just less than two days. And we've got like this feature packed event with some pretty cool announcements, right? What shall we, what, what, what can we share, Lee, what do you feel? What, what's coming that you like you want to tell? Oh, you're gonna, you're gonna get me into trouble, David. Um, well, I think, I think we talked before and I think Susan mentioned that there's a couple of things that are already out there. Um, we have the Oracle cloud provider now, which I think rounds out our support for most of the major cloud providers at this point. Um And then I think we are actively working on probably one of the oldest customer issues that I can remember, which is um support for our A BS X slash crosswalk um library in in multiple languages. And I know that the team is hard at work, turning those into multi-language components and then we have a couple or at least three announcements which we're not allowed to talk about. So just kind of like teasing you with some exciting future um you know, future announcements. Yeah, definitely. Uh I mean, I think that the Aws X kind of multi-language working thing is really interesting, like I think it's one of the most common questions that I get when I speak to people that are playing with Pulumi, I think there's a lot of value that I get from those more opinionated packages that provide a set of building blocks for them to consume. And I think that's going to be very well received. Um I know we already mentioned a lot of the things that we can always already talk about in public. But Susan, is there anything that you want to share but blew me up or announcements or hopefully we covered them all there? Uh Yeah, I don't have anything additional to share, but we have a whole bunch of talks and workshops, but I was going on this page early. I didn't even realize that the amount of stuff that we had going on in these two day events. I don't know if you've even been down to the bottom of this page. But we've got all these sessions with the panels and talks Q and A s. But then there's a whole, a bunch of workshops as well where people can actually join us. And uh I think it's a mix of engineers to develop advocates, but you can actually learn how to work with me and a whole host of different scenarios. I can talk about this one because I'm doing this uh from zero production with Pulumi with the engine team, which I'm really excited to deliver that. Be fun. You doing any workshops, please? Uh Not this time. No. Um I envisage um lots of excitement around the announcements and people trying to get their hands on how to use them. So some of the new features I'm spending this week rather than building workshops. I'm spending time getting to grips with them and understanding them. I think one of the, one of the best parts about being a solutions engineer here and we are hiring if everybody's watching this. Um um One of the best parts about being a solutions engineer here is that you're always on the kind of edge of your knowledge and you're always kind of learning new things and, and kind of consuming, you know, things. I, I didn't expect to be writing C# five years ago and I spent all morning writing C# so, um you know, it's a really great, um you know, it's a really great learning model. Um But keeping on top of it is a full time job. So I'm, I'm looking forward to kind of showing off some of the stuff we've done and I'm focusing more on that in the workshops this time. Yeah, I mean, something I kinda wish I had scheduled the first officers for maybe after pulling me up because seeing some of your demos that you've been posting on some of the channels, it just makes me really excited to kind of, I have a play with it. I, I wrote a blog post on my personal blog this morning. I like to keep some of the stuff on my personal blog. Um And I'm really excited about it. I, I'm uh it's very tongue in cheek but um it, it should be uh should be a fun uh fun journey. Let, let's, let's put it that way. Awesome. All right. Well, we have so Pulumi up, as we said, is on Wednesday, followed by our community Summit, which is on Thursday and I believe, oh no, I moved it. Uh There was a link to join us but just go to Pulumi dot com slash Pulumi dash up uh register and you can do it all virtually. You don't need to travel anywhere. So let's pop that off. Have you ever joined along any of the workshops, Susan, to see how people get on? Is that a maybe a good way to get feedback from people? Uh Yeah, I did around when I first started, I attended a bunch of them, but I haven't in a long time. It's maybe something that we should consider doing. Yeah. All right. Let's start tackling a couple of questions. So we don't have anything in the chat yet. Fortunately, I have prepared some from our community Slack channel, which we can kind of work through. But if you are watching and you want to ask questions, please feel free to drop them into the youtube comments and we will do our best to tackle them. All right, let's grab question number one. This is from, is it possible to render Kubernetes El with Pulumi? It certainly is. Um So you might want to do something like this if you are kind of following a ops patterns where, where you have an external execution mechanism, that kind of deploys things to your cluster, but you want to get the Pulumi authoring experience using kind of familiar programming languages. Um And, and the way that you would do this is there is a resource option uh that uh sorry resource provider option that will render any Pulumi cos code to a YAML file in a directory. Um And that's really useful if you want to use something like ARGO CD off looks um or you just want to look at the YAML that is generated. Um And, and see how that looks. Um I wouldn't say this is the most popular um path to take because a lot of uh users like to get the Pulumi authoring and execution mechanism. Uh But if you're already kind of using Argo CD and you're tired of templating YAML files and using go templates or Python templates or whatever to, to render those things, then, then it's certainly an option. Yeah. Um I think that's her. Like before I joined Pulumi, I think I spent a lot of my time using the render to gamble. Um But then I think it was possibly this time last year, in fact, was maybe October, maybe I'm just being completely wrong. But Pulumi reached the, the KTIS operator, which kind of changed my mindset a little bit to the point where I don't think I've ever rendered Jamel from Pulumi anymore because I rely on the KTIS operator to run and set up my cluster and do the Pulumi up for me, which I think it's a really strong story we're doing continuous delivery with. Is that something that you've either don't know if you have played with or, or seen other people using at all? I think. Um, you see a lot, we've seen a lot of customers adopt the, um, the operator um, at some really, really large scale. Um, so, you know, I see it all the time and there's certainly some very large household names that you would definitely know uh using the operator in, in production on, on my side. Um I think Discover is really um something about these particular questions that we uh could improve because uh it's, it's my opinion that you should be able to search for this particular question and get a reasonable answer out of your favorite search engine. So, uh that's something that comes up quite a lot. Well, you've been doing some work on that recently, right? Yeah, we can, the, the blog should be coming out later today. Um uh um Yeah. And so we have this uh community Slack where I think these questions have been searched kind of uh retrieved from. Um, and Slack is a great chat tool but is not always the best community management tool because a lot of the information stays behind Slacks Wall Garden. And uh we have partnered with a brand new company called Linen to um bring out the um the ability to search for all this stuff. So if you go to archive dot Pulumi dot com, um you will be able to search for these, these kind of questions directly from there. Yeah, I think this is, this is really cool. I think this solves one of those major problems that a lot of open source companies go down the route of having a slack. Uh But you know, it gets very expensive when you want to be able to keep those messages for longer than the 10 as the message limit or whatever it is. I can't remember exactly. So this is a really interesting tool that just kind of aggregates that or fass it in some way and allows it to be discoverable long afterwards. I think it's really cool. I, I spoke with the founder when we kind of set this up and I think the, the question that comes up a lot is are you trying to get around the slack? Um Message limits and I don't think that's the intention, the intention is just to make things searchable. Um You know, so we're not planning on kind of going back and, and adding all of the um you know, the existing that chat conversation, it's mainly just from now going forward. At least that will be archived in a way where users can use it. Nice. Very cool. I like this a lot. All right. And let's grab another question. So the next one is not sure how to pronounce that. Undead ops. Yeah. Yeah, I was gonna say ops and then I realized that I'm just being absolutely deaf undead ops. Are there any examples for alternatives to a huge main funk for creating a bunch of resources? Uh This question was asked on the GO channel. So I guess we should keep it go centric, but I guess we can also give some general advice across all of the supported languages. So we have um a concept of something called a component resource um which I I'm going to uh you know, kind of point out that is not always the most discoverable name, but a component resource is an abstraction that allows you to create um groupings of Pulumi resources that then you can deploy to your cloud and it's available across all languages. So a component resource in a Go is a method on the Pulumi context. And then in typescript is a standard object oriented class and in Python and dot it is as well um very common pattern to, to group things into component resources which will then allow you to reduce and shrink the um the the go kind of like main funk or the main Pulumi program. Um Now, um I personally um I'm not in love with the name component resource um because it's, it's not, again, it's not super discoverable. Um And I will defer to you two folks on uh what you think about that kind of night naming. But that is generally what we, what we go to naming is hard, right? I guess you must see this all the time. Yeah, I I'm curious like uh can you just say a little bit more le about the undiscovered this, of the name? Just so I understand. Um I think the the term component is a very high level hand wavy thing. Um Whereas other infrastructures code tools have very specific searchable, um you know, searchable nomenclature. Um If you search for Pulumi component, you get either a custom resource or a component resource and like a lot of a lot of the naming kind of overlaps um and is very close to each other. Uh And it's sometimes really hard to differentiate between things. Um And so, you know what I'm really hoping for at some point in the future is that we have a big usability study around the naming of things and we start to try and uh we start to try and rethink some of the naming because it's, it's still early enough in our life cycle that we can possibly change the names of some of these things. Cool. Thank you. We try to, we try to call them packages as well. Um And it's not really stuck very well because that's another one of those really generic terms that doesn't really give you a lot of detail into what you're working with. I think we should call it like the Pulumi Lego brick or something. Just, just go completely random on it. Maybe that doesn't help either, but component and packet seem like very overused terms generally across most software things. So the great challenge. All right. Let's see. Uh So yeah, I think we answered that least as component resources, I always tell people never to be scared of the almighty function as well. Like you can encapsulate lots of things and functions in any of our supported languages. And that's a pretty good way of doing it as well. Uh I wanna look that straight into the next question because I feel they're kind of related once you felt an abstraction. Well, how do we share that uh make it considerable? So David asks, is it possible to publish a typescript for limit project M PM? It is possible to publish a component resource to um your package manager of choice depending on your language. So M PM for typescript pi P for Python, you get for dot net and go modules for go. Um It's not possible to take a current Pulumi project. So you know, the, the, the index dot ts or the main file that you get from the Pulumi New command, it's not possible to publish that. And I don't really think there's many reasons why you would want to do that um at the moment. But when you group all these resources together and create component resources, it's very very common to, to publish those. And you can also do this in multi-language as well. So you can write it in one language and publish to all the other language um package managers. Uh The tutorials here are probably um not as good as we would like them to be. And I think there is an initiative to certainly improve the multi-language authoring experience and the component authoring experience so that you can understand one thing I think is always interesting here is that um when you adopt Pulumi and especially when you go down multi languages, you get to inherit all of the foibles of every language. Um And so every language you want to support, you have to have at least an understanding of how N PM works and how pipe works. We at Pulumi do not have as much control over that as we would like. And I think there's some initiatives on the multi language side to make this a seamless experience. Um And I know that Susan is going to be involved in some of that kind of like decision making pro process. Um But yeah, it's, it's uh it's possible to publish any component resource to your package manager of choice, including M PM, it sounds like is just involved in like every single, well, I mean, users, users are involved in everything, right? So, and if our user experiences uh it can be improved and that's, that's really what we need at the end of the day. Yeah, I can agree more. That's it. Ok. Were you gonna add that Narcis? Oh, I was just gonna say I've learned a lot about prioritizing from my physician at Cloy. Yeah. We, I, I guess it's just, we have, uh, a very cool tool that loads of people want to use in their own weird and wonderful ways. I'm always amazed by some of the questions we get and some of our community channels by what people are just trying to do and with that language support as well that we have almost across the board. It's just so much, so much that, but it's fun, right? Good problems to be solved. OK? We got two more questions we'll tackle and we'll try and finish in the next three or four minutes. So to asks, is there any way to have Pulumi yarn out of the gate rather than have it bootstrap an initial project with? I think I'm gonna let you answer that one, David because you learned something about this that I didn't know. So, um yeah, I think I'm gonna, I think I'm gonna defer to you for that one. Well, I was gonna say we used to start first with something that I think challenges a lot of people. I mean, my answer, my answer was actually Pulumi projects are just a typescript project. So if you add a package dot JSON and a Ts config and, and an index file, you can do all those things manually. You then need to add a Pulumi dot Yaml. So, the Pulumi Cli and engine knows which run time you're using and has a name for the project. But it turns out there is a better way, um, of using yarn and I, I'll give, I'll give it over to you at that point. Yeah. So, well, you can add plumbing to any project if you do want to use the Pulumi templating with the plum new command and you want to use yarn, there is an environment variable that actually I've been a bit more prepared to have that available. But as a P prefer yarn, which is here. Yep, you can set the limit, prefer yarn to true and instead of using M PM, you will get yarn support or at least it will use yarn at the book. I didn't know that either until someone chipped in on the answers. So it was good to check out what's happening in the community. This environment variables page as well is, is incredibly useful. It has all of the kind of like um hidden in experimental features. We, we gate them all behind environment variables. So um if there's uh there's lots of things on there that I certainly uh discovered that become really useful. Yep. All right. So I'll throw up our last question. We do have one in the live chat as well, which we'll get to in just a second, but let's tackle this one first from Michael. So Michael wants to know, well, I'll ask you first to describe or maybe Susan can tackle it. What is a stack reference? But then they wanna know if they can use stack references without using the back. But who wants to tackle the, what is the stack reference? You all can take it right off, you go uh stack reference. Um So when you create a Pulumi program, um you get a bunch of resources and those resources have outputs which is the response from the cloud provider. API So as an example, when you create an EC2 instance in aws, you may ask for a public IP address and that public IP address is an output. Um Now oftentimes you want to pass some of these outputs from one Pulumi program to another. Uh a very common use case here is you create a VPC in one Pulumi program, an AWS VPC or a Google cloud VPC in one Pulumi program. And then you want to have a completely separate Pulumi program that provisions your worker compute instances. A stack reference will allow you to pass uh values from one Pulumi program to another. Um And you have to export that output um before using it, but then you can reference it in a downstream project. Um This is uh relatively straightforward in the Pulumi service because it is um you just have to reference the organization that you are using and the name of the project and then the stack that you wish to grab the output from. However, if you are using an open source back end, um you um are also able to do that, but you have to um be a quite thoughtful in the way that you name your projects and stacks. Um because the open source back ends don't have the concept of an organization. Um And so they don't have that logical naming separator. Um And so I think David, you said you were going to add some color here. I know you've used the open source back ends extensively. Yeah, I think you tackle it all but you can uh I just think you can definitely use stack references. Um But uh I think the only caveat that we have right now, I don't know if you mentioned that earlier, but they have to live in the same bucket. So as long as you use a single bucket and have your preliminary project rate your stack to that bucket, you can use stack references by using the name of the other uh project and stack. But like he says, there's no concept of an organization. So you just have to structure a little bit differently. But stack references are a very powerful pattern with Pulumi, especially as we see more teams adopting the platform engineering strategy, which is to have a platform engineering team. Typically, it provides S api but the Pulumi 10 team developers were able to target that cluster without even knowing where that cluster lives. And I used stack references myself in exactly this way. And I've seen other companies do that too. Very, very cool passing. Are you going to add in there? Not that you nailed it? All right. So our live question came from Blake and I cut it a little bit late. So we're gonna have to stitch it together and work out what this was in reference to. But I think it was in reference to component resources being published to N PM. So Blake asks, so are those like the component hub, like CD K construct hub? And we do have something similar to that ourselves. Would we see the registry is like that? Yes. So the the registry um has all Pulumi packages in it and a package can be a um provider. So something that talks to a cloud provider and a package can also be a component. And there is a very handy um box on the registry page that will allow you to, to switch between them. So you can say show me all the packages or show me all the components or show me everything. Um So the registry is our kind of one stop shop for all of the Pulumi content. Um And you know, as new components get created, they get added to the registry. Um and you are able to kind of track them down and, and use them that way. Yeah. And here it is here you can go to plume dot com slash registry and I think it's that type filter, right? Susan, that the, the one on the left. Yeah, there we are need a provider of providers and if you just want to share components, lots of cool stuff in here too. Yeah. Check it out. All right, we went a little over for the 30 minutes that we kind of scheduled for. So, uh I just wanna say thank you both for, for joining me and it's been good fun. Our first office there, I'm sure we're going to do many more throughout the rest of the year. So if you wanna get your questions and drop them in our stock, drop them in the comment section and do your best. Um Any final words from the Thanks for having me. Yeah, absolutely. All right. Now that awkward bit where we can all just look and wait until the stream ends. But uh thanks for joining me and I'll see you all soon.

---
