---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: The Future of Cloud Engineering"
title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: The Future of Cloud..."
meta_desc: |
    Pulumi CEO, Joe Duffy, and Chef Co-founder, Adam Jacob share their thoughts on the role Cloud Engineers play in helping organizations innovate fast...
url_slug: cloud-engineering-summit-2020-future-cloud-engineering
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: The Future of Cloud Engineering"
  description: |
    Pulumi CEO, Joe Duffy, and Chef Co-founder, Adam Jacob share their thoughts on the role Cloud Engineers play in helping organizations innovate faster.
  sortable_date: 2020-11-11T00:30:11Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/D0xIBOld-i8
transcript: |
    All right. Hello everyone and welcome to the first ever Cloud Engineering Summit. Really excited to have you here. We've got a great lineup of speakers, some awesome content throughout the day before diving into that. I want to take a brief moment to thank all the great sponsors that have made today possible. Uh Git lab J Frog Jets, Stack, Chef Aws and Ns one of course presented by Pulumi, the company I work for um but really appreciate the support uh for cloud engineering overall. So with that, I wanted to spend just a minute introducing ourselves, uh you know, getting, getting to know each other before we talk about uh cloud engineering. Why we're excited about this and, and to kick it off um like to introduce Adam. Hi. Yeah, I, I'm Adam Jacob. I'm the CEO of a company called the System Initiative which has a website that says the system initiative with a little Blinky cursor on it. And I was formerly the CTO and the co founder of a company called Chef, but infrastructure automation and I'm super stoked to be here. Hi, everybody. Yeah, and I'm super stoked to be here also. Um My name is Joe uh founder and CEO of a company Pulumi that builds an infrastructures code platform um using your favorite languages for infrastructures code and my background, you know, leading up to cloud engineering is is uh interesting, you know, I worked at developer platforms at Microsoft for many, many years, really lived and breathed developer productivity day in and day out and, and really get excited about modern cloud architectures and that brought me to the world of infrastructure and DEV ops and, and all the great work that's that's come before us and, and really excited about the future of uh cloud engineering. And to tell you a little bit about that story today. And so to kick off the story, I'll start with maybe a controversial uh position which is, you know, the cloud really is the world's biggest supercomputer. The cloud uh is sort of infinite in scale both in compute and storage worldwide. Distributed. I think of really uh modern architectures are really moving in the direction of distributed applications. And what that means if you believe that premise is and especially you look at today. Um the fact that we're not writing client server applications like we did 20 years ago, 15, 10, even five years ago. Um All software is cloud software. Uh what that means is, is software is using the cloud for those computing storage capabilities but increasingly managed services that, that add uh value and, and that we don't have to go um kind of build all these things by hand, we can leverage these building blocks in the cloud and leverage them in new, in new ways. I think it's really important to highlight all here. You know, there's this idea of cloud native software which has been a pretty big idea, a pretty big concept here in the last couple of years. And it drawing this distinction between legacy software, which is usually what we mean when we say like the stuff that runs all the things that matter most in the world that's legacy software and then cloud software, which is like the new stuff that's been written, you know, since the cloud has been born. And I think the reality is we're now at a place where there isn't any piece of software regardless of how it's deployed or when was written, that doesn't have some cloud impact, right? There's some component somewhere probably in this, in, in, in what makes it work that lives in the cloud. And ultimately, we've sort of already reached the point where every piece of software, regardless of when it was written or how it's deployed, likely interacts with the cloud in some way. And therefore all of it really is cloud software. Absolutely. And why is that important? Well, it's important because it changes the way we think about software architecture. It also changes the way we think about our teams and how we work uh with one another. I think of all developers are cloud developers. All software is cloud software and developers are the ones you know uh offering the applications and designing and implementing them. Then that really means all developers are cloud developers and really need to think about the cloud in in a first class way. It's not something you think about after you've designed and implemented, but it's really something you think about at every stage of the life cycle. Yeah, fully. And if you think about all developers today, like if there's a part of you that was like, uh not everyone's a cloud developer. Like if the cloud's a supercomputer, there isn't a software developer alive who doesn't think about the computer that their software is going to run on. That's the whole point of writing software. Right. Absolutely. Um And I think it's exciting too, you know, even if you're not directly touching the cloud, you know, maybe you're writing an application that gets packaged up into a docker container and run inside of a Cober Netti cluster. Well, you can, you can kind of ignore that that point, but it's only a matter of time before you need to be aware of that. Uh What what happens when you need to debug your application? What happens when you need to do logging and monitoring and understand the performance of your application? Uh All of that means that you, you will become increasingly aware of the cloud hosting environment. It's not, it's not a a black box that you can kind of, you know, ignore, you know, related to the to to that is really OK, think about infrastructure teams, they're really the ones enabling this to to happen. I mentioned the the Docker and the tti example, you know, the infrastructure teams are the ones providing the infrastructure platforms that developers are gonna use to build and deploy their applications and many infrastructure teams, you know, really want to enable this level of innovation within the within the organization. Um All the applications are going to be cloud applications, they're all gonna require infrastructure and the infrastructure team really is it holds the keys to, to unlocking um all of that, that application development and software delivery uh within, within the team. And so that brings us to really the three themes that we're gonna talk about today, which is architectures, workflows and teams. Uh I think architectures are fundamentally changing as we move to these more distributed architectures. Uh The workflows are really how we take those architectures and operationalize them. How do we make sure they're secure? How do we test them, verify them? How do we ship them continuously? Uh How do how do we debug them after, you know, something might go wrong. Uh The team's component, you know, fundamentally art is different than, than it used to be, it used to be. OK. You know, that developers didn't really think about the cloud and you know, the infrastructure team did the heavy lifting there. We're really thinking about teams where cloud engineering teams are taking the best of what everybody has to offer and making sure that we can collaborate and move fast. But we'll talk a little bit about the future in today's talk as well. So I want to spend just a moment motivating, you know, where might we be going before we get into a little bit of the details of kind of where we are today and how we got here. Um If you think about the cloud is the world's biggest supercomputer, it begs some obvious questions. Uh you know, every computer has an operating system. What is the operating system of the cloud? Uh Where is it? Do we have one today? And I think we'll see throughout this that we have a lot of fundamental building blocks for an operating system, but we don't yet have a true operating system. We both need one and do not have one. I think the most common thing I hear now when people talk about there being an operating system for the cloud, it's usually people talking about Cober Netti as the operating system for the cloud. But I think, I think it's probably not, it's, it's probably easier to think of it as like as some combination of, you know, is it like a schedule or is it a kernel? Is it like, what is it exactly? That it's doing. But when you think about operating systems, they're so much bigger than just taking my application and shoving it somewhere. Right. Everybody who's watching this right now is running an operating system and you have this window into everything you do that the operating system provides. That's the user experience. It's the developer experience. It's, it's the way the tools are shaped. All of those things are part of the operating system. It's not just running an application. And I think we, we really haven't seen a huge change in, in the idea that if we have the world's biggest supercomputer, what's the user interface to that supercomputer supposed to be? What's the human experience of using that computer? We've really just extended what the previous experiences were out into, into being more available in the cloud, which is great, but it's really just a foundation. Absolutely. And related to UX, which is a great important point, you know, the UX for developers and infrastructure teams interacting with the supercomputer is also still the jury is still out on kind of where that's gonna land as well, you know. Certainly uh YAML is our current programming model interface and I think we all dream of something, you know, a bit richer than that, that allows us to build bigger things out of, out of smaller things. And really all the things we know and love about programming models for all these other operating systems. You know, the future in the future, we will have a similar thing for the cloud supercomputer. I hope so because I think if the model is just Yaml, I I may be out, I might go back and decide that the cloud wasn't for me. Absolutely. Um And then finally, you know, the application model, you think of uh kind of relating to the the notion of operating system and what is an operating system? You know, one of the things an operating system provides is an application model. How do I install applications? How do I version those applications? How do I sign them to make sure they're secure? Uh How do I remove them when I want to get rid of them? And to today, you know, Docker gives us a nice building block for individual containers, which is great. Uh And there are certainly, you know, efforts to go beyond that like CNA and, and helm really kind of give us a little bit more of that installation model, but it's really a far cry from you think of the I OS app store. And this like goes to speak to almost every piece of that architecture workflow and team thing that we were talking about just a second ago, like there's without an application model. What it means is that the only thing we can do to drive this supercomputer is work way down low, right? Like all we can really do is is, is is kind of twist the knobs a low level in this system which then result in something we could run. And I think when we talk about application models, it becomes a little more top down, right? It becomes a little more like, yeah, if, if you define what this application is and what it needs to run on this giant supercomputer, the giant supercomputer should figure out what that, what that's going to do and where it lives and how it's going to run. And like those layers need to be more semantically clearer than they are now. And so that kind of leads you to the conclusion, you know, the cloud kind of broke things, right? You know, we, we've uh we, we knew what the world looked like in this simple client server model. And as we move to this more distributed model of the, the cloud as a supercomputer, you know, we're, we're, we're still trying to figure things out. And I, you know, as we were talking about this uh keynote, you know, Adam and I were, were brainstorming, you know, we really realized that that the cloud kind of broke architectures, work clothes and teams. Uh And now we're now rebuilding. Absolutely. I think, you know, when you think about the early days of the internet. So, you know, I'm 42. So and the, and the first time I used the internet was pretty early on in the internet's life because I love bulletin boards. I ran my first bulletin board when I was eight years old and, like, you know, when the internet started, there wasn't like a book you could read or like a best practice to understand, like, how you were going to manage this internet thing you were doing. Right. All you really had were the, like, the books that were written about how to run UNIX systems in corporations or in university computer labs. Right. It was, it was the dragon book or it was, you know, the alien Frisch's Armadillo book. And those were like, those are what you did. And that, and that was the model we all tried to copy when we were running services for the internet and it just didn't work and we had to figure out a whole new way of running things and that was sort of how the, you know, 1.0 of the internet worked. But then the cloud comes along that entire model fundamentally shifted yet again. And its first path was really just to take what we had learned in the first part of the internet and automate it some more so that we could hide it behind Apis. And now we have to go beyond that even and say, ok, now that these things have been, have been, you know, we've sort of dealt with them a little, we've agglomerated. It's not a word. I think it is now what it means to do this kind of work. What can we build from here knowing that this is the status quo that it's, it's, it's here to stay and that the shape of the universe is what it is. Absolutely. And I think, you know, one of the fundamental things that happened along the way that Adam just mentioned was, you know, infrastructure became software became programmable. Suddenly there was an API uh and this is why, you know, all is not lost. You know, we've got a lot of the foundational pieces we need to rebuild something amazing and way better than what we had before. We're still early days. Um But this is where our cloud engineering comes into the picture. And I think, you know, it's interesting to look back over the last 10 years as, as the cloud was sort of incrementally breaking things, we're having to react in real time to that and, and build tools and build automation and we did a great job. And I think, you know, I think the future of cloud engineering could not be possible. Were it not for DEV OPS, you know, the last 10 years or so of really practicing DEV OPS? Yeah, definitely. I mean, the DEV ops, I feel like I feel like I was lucky enough to be present for, for the whole evolution of DEV ops from its very beginnings to now. And I think it was this really necessary response to these new capabilities that we had that the way that we worked together, the way that we manage things, the architectures we supported. Just like now, 10 years ago, everything was fundamentally broken and we were trying to figure out how we were going to deal with it. And it started from this place of collaboration and this place of bringing engineers and operations people closer together. So that we understood that it required both of those things in order for the system to really come alive. And it required sort of a holistic understanding of those disciplines in order to adapt to this new world. I think where Devops landed over time was a little more sy than Debbie. And one way, you know, is that, you know, when you hire someone to do operations work, you hire a Devops engineer. And, you know, there were arguments for a long time about whether that was a good or a bad idea, but it doesn't matter now because it's definitely what it means to be an operations person. Now, it means you're a Dev OPS engineer. And if you were to ask a regular software developer who builds applications, if they're DEV ops engineers, their answer would be no, right, because they're still software engineers. And I think where we move from Dev ops into cloud engineering, I think it's, I think cloud engineering is a super set of what we learned from Dev ops. It's going to take all those lessons about how we needed to work together. All those lessons about the very shape of the organizations and the shapes of the teams and that need for that holistic understanding of the stack and then push it into this new paradigm that says, OK, but now we need to build systems that were designed for this world instead of just designed to cope with the transition um from the world we were in to the one we have now totally. Um And so that leads to, you know, cloud engineering, what is cloud engineering and really, it's, it's exactly what Adam said, which is, you know, taking all those lessons learned from Debs, really making sure that application developers are leveraging the cloud in a first class way. Um So infusing the cloud more into application development and uh especially with modern architectures and services, this is almost an absolute requirement. Um but it's exciting as well. Um And the second thing is, you know, applying engineering practices to infrastructure. You know, we see that increasingly as infrastructure becomes software becomes programmable, we're we're able to actually apply engineering practices like testing, like refactoring, like, you know, security enforcement, uh continuous delivery. A a whole lot of things that we know and love about application development can now apply actually to infrastructure as well. Uh And then the final thing is unlocking collaboration and this is really where I think DEV ops has done an amazing job of really uh creating a collaborative environment where everybody can come to the table with their own skill sets, contribute them and move faster and deliver amazing capabilities in the software that we're delivering. And to me, this is just a broadening of, of that approach to developing cloud software, which is to say the entire organization becomes the cloud engineering organization, including active, including DEV ops, including infrastructure, including security engineering as well. Absolutely. And the thing that most fires me up about this idea is that it's focused not so much on how do we cope with the change. Instead, it's saying, look, we know how cope with the change now, like we understand what the pieces are, we're coping just fine. This is about what can we build, like how could it be better? What what could be different about the way we interact? How could we move, really move the state of the art forward in a way that you know, you can't do when you're just trying to stay afloat. You know, when you're just trying to deal with the, how much has changed, it's really hard to think about what's the new way that we can infuse the cloud into application development, right? What's it even? What's it mean if the cloud is a giant supercomputer that it be fused into application development? I think it means that the whole paradigm could shift, it could change the way IDES work, it could change the way application development work. If you think about that, applying to engineering practices. If we say engineering practices apply to infrastructure, can we have the same kind of ID experience that we get when we write code only in infrastructure? Could we see it across all the different components that exist in the cloud? Like there's so much potential for the future that that cloud engineering really can be this forward looking idea that says, how do we become better than what we are? Because now we're standing at a new baseline. And the most exciting thing of all is, you know, we're starting to see a lot of this emerge. Uh And so today, what we'll do is we'll walk through, you know, the architectures, the workflows and the teams that we see comprising modern cloud engineering as it as it is today. And then we'll, we'll spend a little bit of time at the end, just kind of talking about, you know, what, what does the future entail. But if you're, you know, excited by this vision and you can, you can start practicing and take some very concrete steps down this road uh starting today when I look at infrastructure, you know, I'll, I'll, I'll admit, you know, my background was more on the developer side, you know, for, for over a decade at, you know, at Microsoft. And even before that, uh and when I got excited about cloud computing, you know, with, with microservices and, and Docker and serverless. And, you know, I, I actually thought infrastructure was, was boring. That was, I thought it was boring when I came to the space. And what I quickly realized is infrastructure is actually essential. Infrastructure is the building block of the cloud. You know, every one of Aws S 200 services or Azure's 100 something services or Google cloud or you know, and, and providers too, you know, data dog. These are all building blocks that we can assemble in unique ways to build new capabilities in the software. I think this is why it's exciting for both infrastructure teams and for application developers. I think of infrastructure building blocks coming in many different flavors, you know that obviously infrastructure is the essential compute networking uh and storage layers that power our applications. Uh we see a INML services that we can use kind of right off the shelf, right? Uh I think A I and ML are two of the most compute in storage intensive uh services that you can imagine. And the fact that we can just leverage this huge supercomputer to run them and integrate them into applications means things like, you know, lift and air BNB and all these companies that are really leveraging the cloud is is much easier to, to innovate and, and build those sorts of applications today and scale them globally uh as, as our workload scale as well. And what that means is, you know, infrastructure used to be a tax. We used to think of it as a call center that was kind of a necessary evil to run our applications. But that's no longer true. In fact, the exciting thing about this, this transition is that infrastructure becomes a competitive advantage where you can actually use cloud infrastructure to transform entire business models. I mentioned a few just now. Um One of my favorite stories is, is sort of the zoom CEO uh who who, you know, when the pandemic started COVID started, you know, they had, they saw 10 to 20 X usage almost overnight and because they had architected their application to use the cloud, they were able to scale and meet the demand. And of course, Zoom is an essential part of our lives because of that. And that was all about cloud infrastructure, you know, if the cloud hadn't been there, if we were, you know, even 5 to 10 years ago, that simply wouldn't have been possible. And it's a great example of, of the evolution a from, you know, having disruptive technology like E two to fully embracing that technology and then using it as a building block of a foundational piece of the entire application's design. One of the one of the most informative things that happened before I started chef was I consulting company and I was working with some friends who ran a company called Zeus, which was one of the first Facebook applications. They were a dating app. And when Facebook launched applications Zeus was the very first thing you could do that allowed you to do dating over Facebook and it blew all the way up. It went completely insane and Zeus went crazy. I like was another example where the same kind of era, you know, I like was about music sharing and you could share music on Facebook and it was a huge deal. And you know, the I like guys, they were literally going around to everyone they knew and asking them if they had spare servers that they could rack to deal with capacity, right? And this wasn't that long ago, right? And, and when you compare the experience of the Zeus Cad, which was just a little after I like where they could use E two, they could scale elastically, they could do those things. Like they were using that cloud environment as a competitive advantage and a competitive weapon, a way that even within the span of six or eight months difference, I like couldn't do. And now you get to something like Zoom where it's, it's a common place piece of core infrastructure. When we think about this as a massive supercomputer. I think that's one of the reasons that it's the right lens because that transition over time really is pushing you toward this idea that no, we designed it to run on this planet scale computer and it does and you know, it's definitely not easy um to, to, to accomplish that. But I think, you know, really going in with the mindset that cloud infrastructure is a superpower and that, you know, those who figure out how to harness it to build these new uh software capabilities really are the ones innovating and creating new experiences. And, and really it is a testament to, you know, the power of all those building blocks uh available to us at our fingertips if we can only figure out how to harness them. And so that I think one of the challenges is how to harness that. But that's really where cloud engineering comes in, which is to say, you know, the way to really leverage that is to let developers, you know, use cloud capabilities in a first class way, have infrastructure teams kind of empowering the whole organization. And so cloud engineering really is all about, you know, accomplishing that outcome. And so as part of this transition, you know, we're really reshaping the way our applications work, you know, you look back to, you know, when Adam was mentioning the early internet days where, you know, client server had just become a thing, you know, we had a client and a server, there were two moving pieces and then we started breaking apart the the back end services into, you know, end tier architectures and then we lifted and shifted virtual machines in the cloud. These architectures were pretty simple, mostly monolithic, you know, yeah, there are a few moving pieces but not many and very static. And so these days, we really think of, hey, what we're really building are distributed systems, they're complex, they're distributed. So there's R PC, you know, mechanisms, it's all asynchronous. Uh We need to think about things like service meshes and discover ability. Um they're dynamic and so oftentimes, we're not only provisioning uh new capacity on a much faster rate, but maybe in real time uh in response to demand with some of those service architectures. And this just requires us to think in fundamentally new ways about the architecture of these applications. You know, if we have these dynamic elastic distributed uh architectures, you know, how, how do we actually build them, how do we test them, how do we deploy them, how do we manage them within our teams? And that's what we're calling uh workflows. And you know, we we've been on this infra infrastructure is code journey for quite some time now. And so one way of looking at that is, you know, we've kind of uh treated infrastructure as text but not software. And I think infrastructure software is an exciting next um quantum leap in how we do infrastructures code, which is to really bring those software engineering techniques to the way we manage infrastructure that includes architecture so that we've got real patterns and best practices. We're not copy and pasting text all over the place. We actually have a real sharing and reuse package model. We can develop new infrastructure, you know, productively, as productively as we can develop applications, we can test that infrastructure using all of the tried and true techniques uh that we've, we've learned over the many years of, of dealing with software and we can secure the infrastructure using those tried and true techniques as well. I think this idea of infrastructure as text to infrastructure software, like it's so compelling, you know, I've spent so much of my life doing infrastructure as code and doing infrastructure as text from, you know, the very beginning of my systems administrator career, which I still kind of feel like a systems administrator all the way till now. And, and this idea that, that the, that it has to evolve from just text to software, like a big piece of that. Is that right now, you, you don't actually interact with your infrastructure as code systems at all once they're running, right, you write this code, then you run the software, then it reaches out and makes whatever changes it's going to make to the world at large and then it's finished, right? And, you know, maybe you're running it in a loop so that you're doing drift detection and you can reconcile state. But like ultimately, they're not, they're not, they're not software that runs like an application runs in its own, right? You can't, you can't interact with it interactively. You couldn't, you couldn't ask it what its state is, you know, like, because it doesn't really have one because it's only real job is to let you describe what you desire and then make it. So hopefully and enough sure it can, like, check in every now again and answerable, you can like, decide to, like, do something right now. But, but ultimately, it's not really the same as when you think about, when we write software, we don't think only about the code that went into writing the artifact. We think about how we interact with the artifact. Once it's running, we think about the API that we can interact with. We think about all the different pieces that went into that system. And I think this is just a really powerful and important frame for thinking about how cloud engineering can be different than what we got with infrastructure as code and what we got with DEV ops like there is a place we can go that I think it is really exciting and unique and special that lives around this idea that, that the infrastructure itself is a, is a programmable piece of the puzzle and that we need to treat it like one, not only in the development life cycle, but also in the runtime life cycle and across its entire life. Yeah. And once you get into that frame of thinking, a lot of things pop um So one is that the the inner loop that we're used to, that, you know, this idea that you do all your application development within your editor. And then magic happens and suddenly it's running in the cloud and it's not something you had to think about in your editor that that's just not the world we live in anymore. And, and so one of the things, one of the critical pieces of the workflow that the cloud really did break in a sense is, is the ID E experience. Um you know, you think of how do I go from writing code to getting it running in production and, or even a test environment in the cloud and, and oftentimes there's manual steps, you have to step out of your editor, you have to go maybe into the cloud console point and click. Uh maybe what you're testing locally isn't quite the same as what's gonna run, you know, once you deploy it to the cloud and, and you're often hopping around going into a terminal, running some commands, it's the experience is very disconnected today. And, and, and so the inner loop of how you work has become not so inner. Absolutely. I'm so stoked about the idea that we could solve this problem. Like how do you, you know when you think about what's possible in software? I saw a really cool demo of some orm code that was written in typescript that when you define the query you want to run and depending on the way you deploy it, it either runs through a lambda that then does a proxy back to the actual data store or it talks directly to the data store that's running on your laptop. And the developer doesn't have to know the difference. It just happens magically by the compiler at deploy time and like that sort of thing is so interesting. And when you think about those possibilities, you know, however you think about it, like somebody out there is like, that's too much magic, but like forget about the details per se and just think about what could be possible when we think about is even an editor. The right is an IDE as we understood it, the right environment. And maybe we need different kinds of tools that run alongside the ID. Maybe, maybe the way that we think about how the system is built could be fundamentally foundational different than it is right now. But in order to get to that future, you have to think holistically about what's possible if you're focused in on how the world's been constructed so far that it necessarily constrains you to thinking in terms of terminal windows and code editors, as opposed to thinking about it in terms of workflow and collaboration. And how do we get those reusable patterns and practices? We know that there's a way to work together to create these infrastructures because we're doing it all the time. But could we build better experiences that really make that really take advantage of all of this capability to make that inner loop inner again. So cool. Yes. No, I'm super excited that I, I have to laugh when you say, you know, uh is it too? Magic is not? It's funny because Id Es really are magic because they're complete magic type systems are complete magic, right? Like everything about its magic, everything, everything about an ID E is magic. You know, I worked on uh debugging and edit and continue and refactoring support and setting break points, you know, for Visual Studio many, many years ago. And if you knew how all those things were like they were just crazy, they really are magic. If you think about that, what's the equivalent of the chrome debugger for your cloud infrastructure? That's infrastructure as software, right? That's infrastructure as software. Because now we're talking about like, oh yeah, could I set a breakpoint that happens right before I launch the E two instance or right after or that tell like that tells me whether the AMI was right or wrong, like there's so much potential there, but we haven't even begun to tap it. Absolutely. And if we're lucky somebody watching this will, will go build that. Uh because we all need that and, and uh you know, related to that, you know, testing is something we we do see, you know, once you start applying software engineering techniques to your infrastructure, it unlocks a lot of that work flow. So despite everything we said about editors, you know, at least you can edit your infrastructure as code in the editor and get rid factoring and all these great go to definition and you know, uh things that we know and love and you can also test. So that's, that's one great thing that we have figured out how to do. Um you know, through some of the great work that that chef has done and, and some of the work that we've done with Terraform and with Pulumi where you can actually test your infrastructure in addition to your application code. And the nice thing about that is, you know, whether you're testing applications or testing infrastructure, you know, there is a critical part of the software release site life cycle and it really spans a lot of different possibilities. And so when somebody comes and asks me, hey, how do I test my infrastructure? The answer is actually quite difficult because there's many different testing techniques. Um And some of those include unit testing, you know, that's just for basic code correctness, you know, did this function do the right thing given a certain set of inputs, did it produce the right output? There's integration testing for larger system integration, you know, does the composition of all of those functions do the right thing. But more interestingly, these days, we're seeing especially for cloud um architectures, new workflows where people are actually doing ephemeral environment testing and what that typically, how that typically works is maybe in a poll request within your github um workflow where you're collaborating with your team and doing code reviews, maybe part of the premer val validation is to spin up an entire environment of your cloud application, run a battery of tests and make sure it works and then tear it back down and treating infrastructure as software actually allows you to do this and it it's game changing, it really changes the way you think about confidently shipping uh all the time, uh new innovation, new features out to your production environment. Um There's also advanced testing, you know, I I think one of the, the, the cool things I've seen is, you know, people doing chaos testing where they'll, they'll actually simulate an outage for an entire region to make sure, you know, maybe the Cober Netti cluster fail over works correctly or, or even within a region or maybe a single availability zone goes out and, and maybe there's some fuzz testing to randomize the environment to make sure that that everything works properly. I think, you know, it's sort of a renaissance of testing for, for cloud architectures now that infrastructure can be treated like software security is also a key component of that where uh security is part, you know, validation and making sure you're scanning and enforcing that you're not, you know, um making mistakes uh unknowingly uh like for example, opening ports to the internet that you didn't mean to or S3 buckets that are unprotected. Um but also the practice of uh you know, the principle of least privilege I think is an important concept. It's always been an important concept. But I think now with the move to the cloud, the security perimeter has changed for applications, it's no longer the four walls of the data center which are is a physical perimeter. It's it's a virtual perimeter of the, you know, the virtual private cloud that you're deploying into and the the firewall rules that protect and govern access to that and the IM roles and, and policies that you put in place. So the principle, at least privilege is an application doesn't get granted access to perform an action unless it's opt in and granted that that privilege and, and that's a real key to, to being able to move fast with confidence in, in this cloud engineering world. Yeah, for sure. And when you think about the cloud as supercomputer and security not being an afterthought, like we haven't really designed that least privileged stack all the way through the system, right? Like when you think about your operating system's security model, it has this whole model ranging from, you know, how do you get into the UI all the way down to, you know, encrypted drives and bios boot security and that chain doesn't exist across this massive supercomputer that we've created. So like we really do have to think about security not as an accidental side effect of what we've done. But it has to be this intentional design of, of what could be possible. Yeah. And I, I love, you know, when you think of the operating system analogy, it just becomes even more clear that security needs to be a fundamental part of how we develop this software. And I think, you know, things, you know, the, the job isn't done after you've done all of this verification and testing and you, you think you're ready to ship, you know, really, that's just the start of the, the game. You know, that's just the beginning. Uh once it's out in production now you need to monitor and react to what's going on. And so this is really up to each team to figure out how their own loop and what an loop is, is kind of a term used by the US Air Force for combat operations. Basically, the idea is, you know, observing your, your surroundings orienting yourself to your surroundings, deciding based on what you're observing and then acting based on that. And I think that's a really good analogy to how we observe our cloud applications in, in, in the real world. And how, how do we figure out when something's wrong, how do we react to the unknown unknowns? Um And, and to do that properly, really means that you're logging everything, you know, can you often can't know in advance what the important uh bits of data are going to be um the, the, the old model of just, you know, having very simple performance counters of, you know, CP utilization and memory, for example. Uh yes, maybe you need those, but that's seldom the sort of information we need to really detect anomalies and react to them uh in modern cloud architectures, especially given how distributed they are uh in their nature. Exactly. And if you can't see it, you can't orient yourself to it, right? Like if you, if I can't observe my situation, that orientation step where I try to figure out what do I, what am I going to do? Like given the inputs that I understand about what's happening now, I have to orient myself based on what I know about my mission, what I know about my surroundings, all of those things so that I can make a good decision as quickly as possible about what the next action is. And these loops are really tight. And I think the big change here is going to be about being able to collect all of that data into an observable system that gives you that capacity to orient yourself quickly and to make better decisions about what to do next when things go wrong. And I think the key thing is that all these things that we're talking about from a workflow perspective are all related. This is about how do we go from idea to actually shipping software in, in production that our, that our end users are going to benefit from. And I think this is where continuous delivery comes, comes in, you know, continuous delivery. This is not a new idea. We've been practicing this for, you know, application uh delivery for for a while now, you know, continuous integration is a sort of the idea of running the the tests and, and running the acceptance testing before delivering. But, but really what we're seeing is moving from just application, continuous delivery to also the infrastructure, as well as application development teams and infrastructure teams and the whole cloud engineering organization work closer together. Really, this is how teams ship early and often and this is how the whole team goes from shipping every quarter to shipping, every month to shipping every week to daily. And many, many teams are trying to get to that nirvana of literally shipping features on every get commit. Uh Many people are able to do that and that's, that's because they're practicing continuous delivery and incorporating all these cloud engineering uh or infrastructure software practices into their daily habits. And I think the exciting thing is that we're talking about applications and infrastructure, the developers and infrastructure engineers and dev ops teams working together on this. We're talking about all the validation, you know, we talked about testing security uh before during and after. Speaking to the the observ ability uh importance there. And I think increasingly, you know, we, we hear multi cloud a lot. You know, I think teams are really trying to centralize on cloud agnostic workflows that work for the team. The workflow is really for the team and has to empower the team to, to do their best work together and to be agile. And so that's a key element also. Absolutely. I think when you focus in on the idea that continuous delivery is the, is the workflow that gets our software and our infrastructure and all those things up into production. It's also one of the bellwethers that tells you that we have so much more to do in terms of thinking about the cloud as a supercomputer. Because when I want to deliver software on my computer, I don't, I don't like build a pipeline that then knows how to take my code from the app to the running thing. Do you know what I mean? Not like that? I don't and, and, and it's not that continuous delivery needs to go away. But the idea that what we're doing is continuously delivering the software, producing these artifacts and then running them on the supercomputer that needs to become the paradigm by which we see continuous delivery as opposed to this process of building pipelines or, or, or, or sort of the how instead it needs to be more about the what talked about teams and really workflow is about how the team works. So let's spend a minute just talking about how cloud engineering teams uh work. And really the thing I I like to say is, you know, cloud engineering is about taking, you know, one plus one equals three. It's about taking application developers and infrastructure teams and DEV teams and having them work together to do more than they could have otherwise on their own. And you know, that, that speaks to the DEV ops journey that we've been on and to the future, which is that cloud engineering teams are empowered, everybody collaborates contributing their own unique skills. You know, application developers focus on what they're great at. They're great at building applications and delivering functionality to end users. And increasingly now they're, they're doing that with cloud capabilities. But um but really, we want to empower developers to do what they're good at. And similarly, you know, infrastructure teams and devops teams are great at engineering, scalable, reliable cost effective foundations on top of which the entire organization runs. Um You know, like to say a application developers, you know, might not want to become experts in networking or how to build, you know, scalable KTIS clusters that, that can scale across multiple regions, you know, that's really in the infrastructure domain. Uh And I think it's important that we recognize everybody brings passions and skills and things that they're good at to the table. And really cloud engineering is about empowering everybody to bring their best foot forward. And that includes security engineers also really, you know, to the security is not an afterthought point. The way that we ensure it's not an afterthought is by making sure the security engineering team is, is a core part of the cloud engineering team as well. So that's sort of the architectures workflows and teams kind of where we're at today. I think it would be interesting just to spend a minute, you know, looking into the future, we've alluded to a number of the key things that, that still need to happen. And, but I think it's pretty clear we're on the horizon of, of a lot of great breakthroughs in, in cloud engineering. I think, in fact, you know, if I were to use a baseball analogy, we're still kind of in the third inning of the cloud, you know, whether that's because folks are still kind of moving from on prem and hybrid into public cloud, people are still making the shift to, you know, there's a lot of facets in which, you know, we're, we're still in the third inning. So, uh a lot of excitement about the future, of course, and it all starts with cloud engineering and these are all foundational pieces and in a sense, the future is really about just more of this. It's about really that that operating system, the programming model, the application model really coming to fruition. So I think, you know, super optimistic about the future, the good news we're well on our way and that, uh Cloud Engineering is the foundation that's gonna enable us all to get there. And so I wanna thank you for coming to talk today. I, I had a really exciting time telling the story. Uh Thank you, Adam. Oh, thank you so nice of you to let me hang up any time. Enjoy the summit. I hope you learned something today. I hope you learned something. Uh a lot of things throughout the day and we've got a lot of great talks here and the talks are sort of organized to, to map back to the themes we talked about today here, architectures, workflows and teams. So have a, have an exciting time. Thanks again for, for coming. Thanks again for joining us.
---
