---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Ep 004: How we run Pulumi with Pulumi"
title: "Ep 004: How we run Pulumi with Pulumi"
meta_desc: |
    This week join Luke, Chris, and Matt, as they talk about how we build and run Pulumi with Pulumi. For more detail, see our blog post at: http://blo...
url_slug: ep-004-how-we-run-pulumi-pulumi
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Ep 004: How we run Pulumi with Pulumi"
  description: |
    This week join Luke, Chris, and Matt, as they talk about how we build and run Pulumi with Pulumi. For more detail, see our blog post at: http://blog.pulumi.com/how-we-use-pulumi-to-build-pulumi
  sortable_date: 2018-06-27T19:22:35Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/F7K1ASklu9E
transcript: |
    All right. Hi, everyone. Uh, it's, uh, Luke Rubin, uh, from Pulumi here again. Uh We are just gonna get started, um, to, with our today's session of, uh Pulumi TV. And we're gonna be talking about, uh, a different topic kind of today. The last few times we've talked about, um, about Pulumi itself and how you can use Pulumi. We're gonna take a different view today and talk about how we ourselves have used Pulumi uh to build uh some of the services and applications that we run, uh ourselves at Pulumi. And so, uh to do that I have with me actually, uh, two guests today, uh, to my colleagues at Pulumi, uh, Chris Smith, uh uh and, uh Matt Riley. Uh And so, uh, Chris and Matt, uh, were two of the, uh, early uh engineers who joined us at Pulumi, uh, and have, as part of that, we're kind of two of the earliest people to use Pulumi and use it to build some of the things that we were building very early on, um, uh for our own services. And so that'd be great to get their insights on both what we have uh built some of the pieces of, of how Pulumi works and get their insight on kind of how they use Pulumi as part of some infrastructure that we ourselves have been building. Um So we actually, we wrote, let me switch over here. Um We actually wrote a blog post earlier this week um about kind of some of this experience. And so I'm gonna um get their insights on some of the same topics that are here, but for folks who want to get to the high level picture as well, um We have a blog post up that uh that has some of the, the details there. Um And so you're free to, to kind of jump around on that and dive into some of the links to see some of the source code behind what we're going to talk about. All right. So guys, uh tell me a little bit about kind of what you guys uh do at, at Pulumi Chris. Uh Yes, I my job title is interim senior Associate Vice President of Engineering Operations Worldwide, North American Division, uh which is uh clearly a, a not a made up title. Uh Primarily my role is just keeping the service uh up and running a lot of the front end work, how it interfaces with um how it exposes an API that our command line tool interacts with. Um And generally just try to add, add features and keep things uh afloat. Great and and then uh chief pessimist. Uh so the I, you know, I enjoyed early and uh have been working on making sure that our infrastructure is not the thing that gets in our way. Uh And obviously the plumbing tool has been really useful for that, but it's mostly about making sure that, you know, Chris has done a ton of work on the service, making sure that our engineers can make the changes that they need to, making sure the best service is available for our customers. Uh and just making sure that we can move faster and not break things. Great. Um Yes. So, I mean, as, as you guys mentioned, uh you know, for a lot of users of Pulumi, they kind of interact with uh cli and that's sort of the main entry point, but that is actually backed, of course by, you know, a service, right? And so when you do a deployment and you have that state that, that tracks what your application is made up of, that's being stored and managed inside a service. So tell me a little bit about kind of how that process works. How is the service involved in, you know, the likes of a user of Polu? Um So at the most practical level, the service stores, the state of truth, so to speak, in terms of what information, the state of various resources, so that the next time you run a Pulumi program, it will just make the changes necessary to move from, you know, the current state to um the next state. Um But the service also uh keeps track of say, update history or aching for um collaborating on a stack with other users or um you know, isolating uh sacks between organizations um as well as just a lot of other um things that work uh behind the scenes around like uh logging or error reporting and just trying to provide a reliable C I experience that just works. Plus, of course, there's a web inter uh that, you know, gets, gets you access to that information as well. A big, big part in uh in, in creating, right? Uh Yes, yes. Uh The CS S minds. Sure. Um ok. So yes, I mean, that's, you know, for, obviously, for Pulumi, we, um we, because we have this service that backs a lot of the cli operations. We have a bunch of infrastructure and an application code that runs in, in the cloud ourselves. Um And so that's kind of where I think we're gonna be focusing this conversation today is that that piece of our code. Um And that piece of our infrastructure, how do we deploy and manage and, and, and where do we use? Pulumi uh to help with that? Um So I think that the first piece is really kind of our core infrastructure, right? Um So we have, you know, we run a, uh tell me a little bit about kind of how our me tell me a little bit about kind of how our infrastructure kind of works, what it looks like and, and how we get to where we are. Sure. So, uh you know, it's interesting we had occasion recently to talk with some ew solutions architects. We were working with them on sort of how they wanted, how they could help us present Pulumi to other customers. And uh one of the really rewarding parts of that was how surprising our infrastructure was to them. So it looks very, very similar to any AWS reference architecture around containers that you're familiar with. We have a scaled out uh stateless front end service uh running on EC2 container service or now elastic container service uh on a cluster that we're currently managing only because part eight became more generally available over the course of our infrastructure deployment and we haven't yet found the right time to migrate to it. Um So we have the, the sort of API service uh written in go running, scaled out and very capably monitored. Uh talking to an R DS, my aurora instance on the back end to keep customer data safe with snapshots and such. Um Yeah, you know, having uh Chris and I each came from Google and it is a very recognizable architecture of the place where you can scale up really quickly and a massive trustable data source. Yeah, great. Yeah, I mean, it is amazing, you know, we're able to um you know, that, that that kind of core reference architecture, once you have sort of a platform for running those containerized things, like you can get application code in there very easily. And so, you know, you don't need a particularly complex architecture but being able to use, uh I think, you know, we use A L BS on the, on the front end, we use uh Aurora on the back end, you know, regularly use some of these managed services from A S and some pretty effective ways. So I guess, uh, you know, that that's the arch is pretty simple. Probably a lot of folks who are doing A two S things are familiar with something like that in their own work. But how do we kind of use Pulumi for that? Like how did, how did Pulumi come into play and, and kind of where, what are some of the interesting things about? Um Well, let's start with the beginning and the dark times, the dark times, uh walk us through the origin of our infrastructure on short. So the Pulumi uh it, it'll be no, no secret to people who uh uh look through the history of our open source repository. But Pulumi started as, you know, the core of the idea of being out on the command line and the idea of a service to tie that experience together was a, a somewhat newer innovation. Uh And so it was actually uh our friend Luke here who came up with a prototype of the first version of this service to run some code in aws. And that was a, that was a large blob of cloudformation Jason uh which was as fun to manage as you might expect. Uh I remember making it at once more and less readable by converting it to YAML and accidentally alphabetizing all of our resources, meaning that the some, the little bit of hierarchy that Luke had been able to apply this flat Yaml file to put regulated resources at least closer together. Uh was a shot. I fixed that and I apologize to Luke. But uh yeah, so as the Pulumi tool evolved and as honestly, our understanding of Aws evolved so that we were ready to stamp out some for some, some best practices. Uh We did a migration of that to Pulumi and we uh have been running Pulumi on Pulumi since at least October or November of last year. Yeah. Right. And so I, you know, in preparation for this, I had a chance to actually look through the, the infrastructure code that we've built. And the feeling I was left with most was I was surprised actually how much we feel like it turns out that getting, you know, getting 80% of production service is the AWS reference architecture. But then getting is something that we can actually support for customers and confidently say that they should use and depend on. There's a lot of fish cases, a lot of monitoring involved a lot of uh connections to our particular uh aging workflow, for example. And there's a lot, a lot there. And the reason that I was surprised by that is because when I make changes to the infrastructure, I can pay attention to only a very small part of it. Because the fact that we're finally treating configuration as software, the fact that we're treating this is another part of our software stack means that the module system really helps me change exactly what I need to and know what's not relevant to the things that I'm changing today. Yes, I mean, I think that's, that's probably, you know, we kind of talked about the cloud formation template being kind of that one big file and, you know, that's something we've been able to change. Like, um that's obviously, you know, one big benefit is to be able to factor that code. You know, we, we're all kind of uh folks who had done software engineering in the past and kind of bringing some of those tools. I'm curious if there's anything, you know, factoring. Are there any other things that kind of uh from using bluing? You've been kind of surprised they are just really natural kind of things to, to, to pick up and use those tools once you're using that to manage instruction instead of some of that. Uh Well, uh on just on the subject of factoring the code and, and, and forcing, you know, like a, a good architectural layering, let's say, um something that I found uh super useful is places where we can create our own constructions. Um So, for example, the we have an application load balance in front of everything. Um And that's in front of multiple domains, multiple services and then we have, you know, priorities of uh different rules and how we wire the listener and whatnot. Um And there's a lot of complexity there that's needed just to configure it the right way. Uh But by and large, you know, you want the places where you hook into it to be much simpler. And so um we've been able to sidestep all that complexity by just like putting it into our own uh types and just having a few functions that are uh in the low balance or package that say we don't need that complexity to bleed everywhere, right? It's just a matter of, you know, register the target group and all the the go where we need to map the um you know, the party rules or, you know, uh serve both HP and HPS traffic like a lot of that just is. Um well, I can say there it is like as someone who needed to add a new service to our constellation of micro services, I I had to bring much less creativity to the task that I used to in the past and I was able to, I knew that I was using code that was well tried, uh, that other, that, that, you know, have been tested for and other service opponents. Uh, as far as to what are things that were surprisingly natural here are things that Pulumi really made. Pop. The simplest one to me is I've written a couple of dozen I AM policy documents. I'm still terrible at it. And the magic of just a typescript reminding me the fields and the shape of the ma uh when I write this and being able to write it in line in the code as Jason and then pass that on to the Pulumi framework is that it, it's a small delayer. Um It's a more technically impressive accomplishment of the one that really demonstrates polluting power. And the end is something that sort of waved at before, which is how we um alert our system, how we make sure that if something is out of stock that someone on Pulumi on call is notified. And that is so, you know, a pretty typical structure of we have cloud wash alarms that uh send messages through an S MS topic uh to a land which then notifies using the pager duty API and perhaps the API depending on the severity of the incident and the how, how acutely we need to think about problems in that particular environment. But that is everything that I just described is the Pulu program broken into appropriate architectural thesis. And that's amazing because what I just talked about was uh creating pieces of AWS infrastructure. The SNS topic with the power alarm, having those refer to other lower level parts of the system. So the service, the application load balance or the R DS in instance, and there are various metrics um then tying that together with jobs with, with uh your job type code that's just in line. So the fact that to go from the SNS topic to uh duty to actually look at A I, we're looking at uh an ax to tie those together and it looks just like the rest of our infrastructure and it felt so natural to provide it there. Yeah, I guess, you know, that's one of the features we, we tied that a few times, I think around Pulumi, this Chris. Chris is uh pointing out that he, he uh he built that and actually like a really nice little framework that I think, you know, to, to mass point like uh you know, one engineer is able to build that framework and then every other engineer is being able to benefit from it. And so it, it is this thing where we can reuse and build on top of each other's work just, just to uh you know, continue to refine this point. It's, you know, in addition to the infrastructure wiring, so that say a car wash alarm gets triggered. And then we add it to the very system. The uh creation of those cloud watch uh metric alarms is also just been abstracted into a single function. So for example, um whenever we add a new service, uh and in front of our um on, on our load balancer, we just take the target route. That that's kind of the thing that receives all the traffic. And then from that strongly type object, we can generate, you know, alerts for when it serves too many five hundreds when um this latency is too high. And, and all these other things that can then be reused across multiple services and you know, later um downloaded by, you know, other teams or companies or whatnot as just like an N PM package. Um I think that, you know, code reuse is just super, super useful. So at that point in good use, um I think one of the things that I personally found really interesting, um you know, we uh Matt, Matt had done the work to kind of bring up some of the original version of, of our service. And we saw some patterns that were useful there that then as we were talking to customers, we're working with, we also saw the same patterns around you pay the canonical networking, the E PC sort of the canonical ECs cluster with the auto scale and these sorts of things. And you know, we had to build those three or four times. And we said, hey, you know, maybe we should make a reusable library for these. And we're able to build on top of a lot of the work matt had done to make a production quality installation of those for ourselves, fact it out and use it in other environments. And so I think those are part of this in the blog post as well. Those are things that are not part of some of the libraries that we put out of the open source product. And so so in the I think we have an a Infra library which has those two components which are derived from initially, we did and we have a blooming cloud component which builds on top of those. And so we're able to really, you know, that work that we do is not just valuable for one an application where they able to go and extract the data and, and you know, satisfy them to deprive our customer of the opportunity to investigate the terrible thoughts that I had to find our production infrastructure. Uh I guess it's OK, sure that uh they could read the history of the Aws Infra for example and see uh what has changed and why. So you mentioned, for example, we have an ECs Huster built over an auto group. And it turns out that uh the question is in cloud formation, it is relatively straightforward to say I have this auto scaling group and I have this launch configuration, I would change the launch configuration that I would like something reasonable to happen to those instances because if you just change the launch configuration and do it for anything else. And so I will just Quitely say, cool the next time I need to replace the machine, I'll use that. But obviously, the intent of, of that action is I changed the operating system and I changed the version of I would like these instances to be restarted, but I would like them to be restarted gradually so that the service that runs on them and the actual customer value we provide continues. Um There was a fair bit of research involved in figuring out the best practice way to do that uh using providers from the telephone ecosystem. Uh It turns out that the best practice if you find the right data issue and the right person to talk about it, it is actually to very quietly wrap information uh in a very precise and targeted way because that's the only way that Avis who provides an API service area to do correct. So A, you know, they have much better, much better A I and attract sort things like the elastic pain service for EC2. It's very much built on all contributions where the photo was. It doesn't make sense to move it yet. So we built that we built a user data script that registers instances into the or you know, read registers in from uh instances on the confirmation stack. Um And I've tracked that away as a cluster if you want to own the EC2 instances that you run your ECs tax on just instantiate a cluster. And we'll take care of making sure that whatever OS is appropriate for that is. Yeah, it is a great point. You know, that was, you know, meaningful amount of effort to both investigate and understanding what that best practice was. And then it actually implement something that correctly did all the work flows and networks still hide away behind new in for that. I'm, I'm happy it works, but I'm not like that's not what I'm proud of. Do anything like it, it, it is running and so certainly our customers shouldn't care about that. The glory or not glory of that. And as soon as Amazon replaces that with something more obvious as soon as they replace that with, um you know, something that manages this deployment in a better way, we'll quietly replace that in a way that's not disrupted deployments because it can't be disrupted our employment and then customers deployments will get better, never mind, get rid of whatever little bit of creativity I added. Yeah. So, um so we've been talking a lot about kind of the like what we've built and, and kind of how we're using Pulumi. But uh I think one of the interesting things that the folks are always kind of thinking about when they, when they ask questions about kind of Pulumi is how does it integrate with other tools and with that workflow is and, and how do we kind of use it day to day? So, so tell me about kind of like, like what kind of environments do we have to set up? How do we could deploy code into those environments? You know, like, tell me about. So for the employee service which you can visit today at HGS app, do Pulumi dot com. Uh We have the prototypical uh test staging and production instance. And also uh because it's super easy to do so and blu need to create an isolated um sack as we call it. Um There's also the beloved Chris Smith de Sack uh which has the, the bleeding edge of, of, of changes and what not. And um all of these are uh we have the code and github and then deployed um on deploy uh when our pushes are made via a Trata C I. Um And so essentially when our C I system runs, we just trigger Aluar based on the branch, right? So pushes to production, update, update the um production instance. And so, you know, the the C I workflow is targeting of testing and staging production, then of course, like you did. Uh And now you could just, you know, deploy to as, as quickly as you want from your local machine, right? And then have an is environment to quickly. Uh Yeah, and I mean, that's having worked on other very large systems uh at other companies. Like, it's just kind of amazing. Um frankly, uh you know, I, I literally work on a, a product that you, you heard trying to create like a desk stack and literally required like, you know, moving into a data center. Uh and like standing up like 50 60 services, it took like a week to finally go to, you know, Chris food and just, and it just took forever, right? And then that's only a subset of it that can be automated when you look at say certificates and um doing the DNS shenanigans. Uh That's also something that uh with the current um set of kind of tools available in the space just isn't really practical. Whereas with Pulumi, um you know, we can't provision uh an Amazon certificate manager cert automatically. Um But if you do that and already have the domain set up and creating like subdomains and registering the search, uh um it all just works. Um And then going back to the evolution of our own like infrastructure, um the very first version required like say five manual steps and then you do the pluming update and then it'll say four manual steps. And as we moved more and more into the more and more of the, the key resources into the blooming program, you know, notably like Certs and, and DNS it just became easier to stand up and, and tear down these. And there's another instance of getting a of code that I should have reasonably, uh, Chris is reasonably all pass over time and the house a shell in our, in our terms poor. And it turns out that in confirmation the glue that was available to us was we were working around the Aws cli and it sort of thick clients support for doing reasonable things in power information and trying to orchestrate our bills around bringing up the ECR like it going from zero to desktop was not the most fun glu has made every part of that better and made uh that we can do better by deleting. I mean, just, just for the the audience at home doesn't realize the the pain and suffering that this has caused. Um If you want to get say an output from your Pulumi, say the um the DNS name of your R DS database, you create an output output property and just like export DNS name a database equals, you know, database dot DNS name, right? Uh Before that feature existed, uh what you needed to do is download the checkpoint file and then pipe it through JQ. Uh which is a tool for um querying JSON files. Provide a monster to query to then find the resource, uh tease it apart with, you know, set or Hawk or something and then pipe that to the Aws. Uh cli for, you know, this is a great example of that. We knew we had this idea of outputs or dynamic linking was our most aspirational conception of this and that that issue did honestly stagnated for a long time. And then we built something that it needed it to get our work done. And all of a sudden, we were able to refine that future into the essential thing that was necessary to build a more productive environment and, and get that part, that part is in the product. And so that is something we would not have gotten right, or at least not gotten as right. Had we not been holding ourselves to use product or feeling the pain? So cute. Yeah. Yeah. Um No, I think that that's uh that's a really good point. That's, that's also featured in pretty much every example you see a Pulumi program is using those outputs and we're de scripting them and doing a curl against an output. So there's people that are taking advantage of that and a lot of getting built now. Um So one thing uh I think uh Matt mentioned briefly uh but is something I personally really like as well as um uh kind of our dashboard uh set up. So, you know, we uh internally, we have some really nice uh cloud watch dashboards and let us sort of look at the state of our infrastructure. And one of the neat, neat things is that those are actually also built using um and as part of uh our infrastructure. So talk about kind of like how we built those, the kind of uh this is um not have dreamt of Pulumi kool-aid uh and eat a little. Um But in creating our cloud wash dashboard like uh graphs and, and whatnot. Uh It was literally the first time I, I thought the product kind of felt magical and just kind of resonated. Um because even when we're saving up these sophisticated pieces of infrastructure, it's all uh kind of accepted, right? There are API S more or less that exist to do the sorts of things that you want. Whereas the Cloud was dashboard, the there is an A I uh rather that you can edit widgets and things in the Aws console. That's kind of how I, I assume you're supposed to do it and there's only one end point or recall correctly. It is you, you can pass it a Jason uh a blob and then has all the widgets in their layout and just everything, right? Um And so there wasn't kind of a, a lower level a you guys see. And so this was an instance where um we apply those because the test code, we can create like types and classes and um introduce our own instruction over, say what a widget is, how to do the layout. Um And then generalize things like if you have a UC two for instance, you can, you know, create a graph for it, right? It's, it's, you know, CPU and memory utilization. Um And then we use that as we have different um types of machines that we want to monitor. And because it's so you could have imagined some parallel tool can do that. You could have called it out to node. But it would have been hideous to imagine the interplay between how the the play is and this template. And then going back to the point, right, these are a W OS resources that depend on and semantic information of other a of resources. And it's only because Pulumi allows us to express that as one continuum that this was, you know, that is itself as I think really to that as well. Uh Yeah. And, and even going further like the fact that it is all like just code, um someone adds a new service in like a, a pull request or whatnot. And then it's like, hey, we should totally add a on our dashboard. Here's the file, here are the two lines you need to add and then it just appears, right? And then it's not, oh How do you, you know, manually tweak it and add it to the staging your product environment like when those environments get updated? So will dashboards and it all just works at any point. In fact, like when I stand up a deaf environment, I get dashboards for free I get for free. You know, I can, I could look up my own like channels and that's sort of a neat thing about managing these as part of a single, you know, unit and then them together is that they, you know, you get all these features that, that's been a beautiful thing. And, you know, obviously those dashboards are something that the team is using every day to kind of keep a, keep an eye on kind of how the uh the service is operating. And the fact that we can part of our tourism and approach them with that same kind of software engineering, I and VR and all that kind of thing, I think has really changed everything about the dashboard is a really interesting example of the sort of ecosystem all that you can build where a lot of Amazon services have an API that sort of manipulate sounds usually emerge in a sense, there's an ECs a reasonably high level concept that corresponds to my intent, cloud wash metrics in the cloud afterwards, were very clearly designed with the understanding that the console, the shoulder, the majority of the work and actually make you use of the product there. And the problem with that is that it's only useful from the console and it's only usable from the console. You can't stand up, eat that the same way because you know that that just how you have time. In this case, we were able to find, you know, one of many possible interpretations of what are the actual, what are the actual intent in uh Patrick and a library for that stand out. And so we sort of fill in a gap and produce a more level service using a more level operating environment for most people want to build on that. And I'm sure we'll relitigate the no longer place, but then that's just, that's just there and head to the point earlier. We, we, we've previously found out some other parts of our introduction into some open source packages. This one, we haven't yet, but I think we're planning on doing it soon, hopefully uh um taking all that kind of the framework that we built to do uh to these kind of dashboards and, and putting that package which other folks can read on. And uh I'm excited, I'm excited to get that out there. But one other piece um that I realize we haven't talked about yet. Um But I think it is really interesting is um we serve static sites as well. We, we have um www dot com, which is sort of marketing site offering is we have uh Pulumi project site and we even have get lulu dot com, which is the, the actual kind of where you have to go to, to get the, get the bits. And then each one of those is, is just a kind of traditional static uh site. Um So you know, we use to deploy each of those, right? So, so tell me a little about how we use for that those piece. Uh It's, if you look online or how you would serve a website on it would probably say start with a cloud current distribution. Uh that is, has the origin of that three buckets and then put a uh route 53 listed zone um at the, and then, you know, uh that is how our program works and it all just works. Uh You know, having um written two of those things. Uh This is also one of the uh I guess like pitfalls, but the things that, that we've learned is that, um there are a lot of configuration options and as someone who uh would say using a for the first time, um you know, II I got it wrong, right. So, for example, uh we're like, hey, everything's a little slow. Why are we starting, you know, we should be uh the, the data that's compressed and I was like, oh, hey, I didn't know the, know the thing and as it turns out, it was literally a line of code and it changed the, the default value or something. Um But, but anyway, the, you know, this is there, there's nothing, I guess it's easier to like there's no creativity here. Um It's just about translating here the, the cloud products that can be used in this way. Um And then just packaging them up in the end of the program. Um, I think in both cases, in all of these cases though, um, it, it's a situation where if we could think of a, a kind of more reusable or, um, a good pile of design that, that just packaged all of these disparate products up into a, um, single package. Um, I think that would be great. Um, because there is a lot of like reuse and redundancy between these various static websites that I think, you know, we needed 1/4 1. You know, we can turn that 100 lines of code to 10, right? And you know, this is, this is something I talk about a few times and I uh there will be questions and, and after that, so we mentioned of the things that uh we're using, that we have not yet found a place for in like our public ecosystem. And I think part of that is because we want to be honest that, you know, the bluing tool has made this a software engineering task and that has made things easier. But I think like many folks who are watching, we face certain compromises in the infrastructure that are appropriate for a small group and a small set and for when you can go and that's why a decision was made. And so we are definitely planning on making much of this public over time, but we have respect for the fact that when we put this out. We are claiming that these are, these are good ways to think about some of this stuff rather than something that that makes sense for people in our building who understand and have been through sort of a couple of cost, we will see the drop over time, but certainly the amount of design that's gone into Pulumi power, for example, where we try to build our attractions without many edges so that are applicable across a bunch of domains. So a bunch of people with varying levels of experience, um you know, dashboard framework, for example. So it requires you to understand the web of AWS that we're talking to and it made our lives significantly easier from where we were before. But we want to make sure that when we actually want something that is sort of, you know, you can engage with the cloud at that level and do something without us see our math, that's actually an interesting point to, to go a little deeper on. Um So for example, we were very easy with a cloud service to uh just run a container in the cloud and how to manage work. Um It was great and I, I had a, a wonderful project. The mine, I was like, oh there's this container I wanna run this and cloud is gonna be great. Um Random shout out to factor uh one of the greatest video games all the time. Uh Anyways, uh it requires UE network. And um you know, the, some of the uh ways that I did the network game just we work with them. Um And this is a location of just the little, you know, route through various products that um it has simplified that, that garden path. Um You know, so uh I guess uh there's a realization here that while you can make accessing, constructing and manipulating uh cloud resources super easily um resources still exist and, and you can uh provide a wonderful that, that will work in a lot of situations. Um But ultimately, you know, there are constraints for from the cloud providers themselves. Um But I think the problem with humility, we don't want to put out with the because we come from blue may be not necessarily the magical part about this is we have a tool, we have this language ecosystem so that the people can show us the attraction we haven't thought of yet and they can share those and very much like languages. Uh We will be surprised by how elegantly some of these things can be wrapped if they're approached from the way we haven't thought of yet. Yeah, I guess, you know, that's a good point. I think, you know, some of these things, you know, even, even the um uh the website, I think we actually, I think in the dark side, we actually know that has a open source and we do have some of the infrastructure code can take a little bit but to your point that's done in a way that works for that site. Um But maybe not necessarily in it for, for, for everyone, for that website. But it's a foundation for other folks that we could, you know, use as a foundation to go to generalize component set website. But other folks could also go and take it in different direction as well. And uh um component of pretty much, it's interesting to know that, you know, Pulumi enables us to even be an option if you're uh you know, we can say here a uh an MD package or you can call a Pulumi package that can then be reused and modified. And it's, you know, if you're, if it's just the infrastructure for like how you serve your, your code or serve your website, um that's not something that you would uh say consider as high of a, an IP that you're trying to protect is opposed to say like the what the source code that is running on that container or that's on that website. Um And so, you know, you can see situations where um by being able to, you know, choose between, like here are the various packages that do this sort of thing and maybe um they have different configuration knobs or, or whatnot. Um That, that's a world that we can II, I would love to see us get to. Um Whereas today, you know, it's maybe a s has an example, maybe there's a blog post somewhere but um there isn't really an ecosystem around, like standing up the infrastructure or reusing components of infrastructure posting and monitoring a service is not where people really want to differentiate themselves. At least not until, you know, you have several billion users. And uh the thing I'm really excited about is the first time that we get to import a package written by someone outside this building and use it to remove some of the complexity from our service deployment. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Um No, I think that that's, you know, ultimately, I think that's one of the key building blocks that, that we can offer. And I think it's something we're seeing in that ecosystem and some of the things that we found useful for all the, some of the work you guys have done. Uh um But I think, you know, to your point, I think we're seeing folks now that, that uh we're out there publicly, uh we've seen, you know, uh Asra service, somebody contributed an example that shows us how to use that service. We saw um open stack and contributed a provider to, to look up open stack. We starting to see starting to see the ecosystem to learn some of these places as well. And I think hopefully we'll see some of those uh usable components on top of that as well in the near future. So I think we're, we're kind of out of time. Uh, so, uh, maybe we'll wrap up. Um, I thought I'd give you guys a chance if, uh, if you have any kind of thoughts on tips you give to people who are, uh, you know, most folks watching, I think probably just getting started with Pulumi. Uh, you know, you guys as two of the longest veterans using Pulumi, like, you know, what would you, uh encourage folks to kind of, um, take a look at, you know, uh, to, to think about as they're, as they're getting up and running with Pulumi today, uh, just be sure to use the Pulumi console again at uh ploy dot com. Uh show it can show you your resources, uh drill into them, also update history, uh resources for older updates as well as plenty of exciting new uh features on the horizon. No, it's actually, that's a really good point. You know, we often focus and when I do demos here, I often focus on the cli and doing deployments because that's the part we kind of have to use that inter loop. But one of the really nice things I think that, that I find, you know, we all find using it is the ability to just dive into the um, app do Pulumi dot com and, and get access to a bunch of information about the stack and quickly find the end points that are exposed, quickly, find the best resources find it. Um It is, is really acro just changes the way you think about kind of that it. Uh And that's, that's uh something that Chris has made come to life. So, thanks Chris and any thoughts met. Uh um Just to, you know, I, I know that we launched with, uh you know, a diversity of environments for folks to try because it is important in the Pulumi ecosystem to meet people where they are. But certainly folks looking at where we've tried have uh will see that we've done a lot of our work in typescript. And that's because as, as Lucas fond of pointing out in demos, like typing and then hitting dot And then having your editor help you build the cloud like that is a magical Pulumi experience. And it's something that's enabled by the combination of, you know, of the, the typescript ecosystem. And the fact that for whatever reason, typescript and javascript, you know, typescript physically is so well suited to the dynamic I uh form of the cloud and having to combine configuration languages. And, you know, when I built the user data, that's a natural thing to do in typescript in a function call. So if folks are sort of looking around trying to find the uh easiest way into the Pulumi ecosystem, I definitely recommend that they try text script and that they probably try coming in through AWS. Um Yeah. No, I mean, that's true. Like, you know, we're talking here a lot about our work and I don't know if we were explicit about this, but obviously we're explicit about building on Aws. But we've also done a lot of our own stuff with typescript. Now we do support a variety of other things. But to your point, those are the places where, you know, I think we and some of our earliest customers have spent the most time. And so, so certainly for folks wanting to hit the ground running and take advantage of everything that we've done. Um That's where, uh, that's where you're probably going to see kind of the most support. Um We're definitely excited about folks kind of, uh, um trying out some of those things and, and expanding and helping us to flush out um kind of more, you know, other platforms and other languages and things. Um So, uh, definitely jump in with that, but I absolutely agree that, uh, you know, if you want to see what the promise of Pulumi can really look like in full in the public now for about week and a half. Yeah. Yes. No, it's amazing. It's only been a week and a half. But, uh, um, uh, we've had some great engagement for those for folks who haven't joined us actually on the, uh Pulumi Community Slack channel. Definitely encourage you to, to jump on there. There's been a lot of great discussions with folks. I've done a lot of really interesting things on top of Pulumi. I know a lot of folks on the team are enjoying kind of engaging with uh with, with folks there. Um uh But yeah, check out the, we did a blog post that goes into a little bit of detail on many of the topics that we covered today. So if you want more details, want to see some code snippets, want links into some of the Rio by this code. Uh You can take a look at this yourself um uh jump over there or just join us in the Slack Channel and then we'll answer any other questions or have any other discussions you guys might have. So, thanks again guys for, for joining us uh today. I think this has been a fun conversation. Uh And uh hopefully we'll see you guys again some other time. Thanks for watching. Yeah, thanks.

---
