---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Write Some Abstracts"
title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Write Some Abstracts"
meta_desc: |
    Have you ever wondered what goes into writing a conference talk proposal? Do you have ideas but don't know how to write them up? Do you want to jus...
url_slug: pulumivision-kat-matty-write-some-abstracts
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Kat and Matty Write Some Abstracts"
  description: |
    Have you ever wondered what goes into writing a conference talk proposal? Do you have ideas but don't know how to write them up? Do you want to just watch Kat Cosgrove and Matty Stratton write up a few conference proposals while you offer up "helpful ideas"?   If so, tune in to this special edition of PulumiVision, where two of Pulumi's Developer Advocates will work through some of their conference talk ideas, in Real Time before your very eyes!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-31T13:08:46Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/7t0VCfFWHKE
transcript: |
    Um ok. As, as always, no one's no one's joining us right away because that's how it happened. But for the replay, if anybody's watching this later, um, well, we might as well kind of get into it. So we were talking about. So what I was telling you, ok, just let's catch back up again. So, like I came up with three ideas that are really their, their titles slash concepts. And I've got like a couple notes on what they mean. So what I did so far is I've got like here and I'm gonna just share my um the whole, not the whole screen but my whole chrome because then I can flip between the tabs. Um And this is ridiculously small. Your mom's ridiculous. She is ridiculous. Um OK, so, so kind of here's, here's like the, the high level theoretical concept of each one and then I think like kind of step back and see if there's a, a way to sort of like refocus it and then where it comes in. So one is this idea around infrastructure code isn't just a tool, right? So like it says, what are there, there's concepts around this, that it's not just because everybody jumps right to like, how do I write some HCL, how do I write some Pulumi? And it's like we reason about things in a different way and there's concepts and I think this actually goes a little bit to like, really treating infrastructure as code versus like using a get flow type thing to just check your, your stuff in. Um This is maybe the least really, Well, not any of them are really that thought out. So this one was like Laura. Laura, I think is doing something similar, but I've been wanting to do this. So this is like this. Oh That's good. I like that. There's a program for but I think it might turn into programming 101 for s Yeah. No, I think that's, that's good. Programming 101 for ops is good because I like this just came up on my like uh aws thing earlier today. Um That a bunch of people just joining all of this. What the fuck? Why? No, it's good. Well, no, no, no, no, no, we want this. This is good. This is, helps us with our job. So um those of you who are all joining now. So yeah, so we're, we're, we're working on um a couple, just talk abstracts that, that I'm putting together. Cat has a few that she's already written recently. So she doesn't want to write anything new. So she's gonna help me write, write some, but recently, I mean, like the last week. So yeah, like they're fresh, I haven't submitted them anywhere. Uh Call me. Um But, but it would be dope like, as we go through because I think we'll kind of work on a few of these and get like kind of your approach because everybody has different ways. And also if you're in the chat and you are um someone who does this kind of stuff, like speak up and tell us like how you like to do it. Uh And then they'll OK. Anyway, the last one was um organizing your info code, right? And so it's kind of a little bit and the the business people to write their simple pieces because abstraction, see, I wrote that because I was talking to somebody and I don't remember what, I don't know what envy means here, but that's even even that's it. 00 no, I know exactly what this is about now. OK. So I'll explain that. OK. So again, it could be organizing at an organizational level like a people like uh like who does what? So like some of those organizational patterns, but also even a little bit like it could get into some details about like, but that might get a little like uh product specific because and language specific. But it could be interesting. But one of the things around this where this comes up and now I know what I'm talking about with this is, well, this is an opportunity to have a talk in different flavors, right? So uh flavor is that uh support. OK. Uh If you think that this is going to become a like a language or product specific thing, this is an opportunity to like have a talk that you're able to like highly tailor for a specific conference or a specific audience. Like, of course, you'll have to kind of rewrite the abstract every time. But I sort of do that anyway. Yeah. Well, well, it'll be a, not that different. I mean, it's just, yeah, I mean, so, so the thing is if it's gonna be at that level, it's gonna end up being Pulumi specific because, because it almost has to be, you can't, you can't write a very abstract, abstract, abstract about how you're gonna organize the fi because again, if it's terraform or it's CD K or it's Pulumi or it's chef, like the whole idea of how you rebuild, like your layout of files is fundamentally different is nothing like, even if it's ploy, it's fundamentally different if it's javascript or Python or whatever. So, um the, but so one of the things though and this, this was, this goes back to, I remember, I, now I know exactly why I wrote this in here and I think it fits into this talk because one of the patterns that, uh and I was, I was talking to a friend of mine who, who works in, in, in enterprise and was talking about like, you know, all these folks, like, kind of, I always hate to say in the business, right? Because like everybody's the business, you know, but whatever in, in the line of business, if you will, you know, the um you know, they're doing like no code or low code stuff and all these kinds of things. And so actually you kind of want to be able to even potentially extend some very uh I don't wanna say simple but easily used Infra code. And this again is where those abstractions come in where it's like, like here, here's a pattern that I used to see. People do a lot in the old config management days of chef and puppet and stuff like that. And I guarantee it's still happening is you'd be in this large organization and they would say like, OK, we have this automation team and these six people write all the chef for all of Walgreens not picking on Walgreens. Walgreens actually didn't do this but whatever for this entire enterprise, I fuck them, right? Yeah, I don't wanna pick on Walgreens it. Uh So like the thing is with that is what you have is that super sucks because you're like, these people have to have domain knowledge of all the applications and all the services and all the things. Versus if you said, instead of having to teach six, having six people have to know a lot of stuff. What if you taught a lot of people a little stuff, right? If everybody learned just a little chef, they could, you know, and again, you because you can provide those abstractions, right? You can be like, and my example that I um here you go. And Smith managed beer. 30 time beer. Fucking 30 bud. Um uh This is developer advocates after dark. So yeah, there you go. Yes. Uh But like the example I would always give and I think I'm getting a little more up to date and I think it has to be a KTIS example, but I'm still gonna go back and use Tomcat because I'm talking about like, is because you're old because I'm old. Um If I need an instance of tomcat up, like there's 100 and 50 different dials, you can turn on tomcat. I only care about three of them. But my middleware admin wants to set the good practices for that. So like, I could have like, I could literally write like three lines of Infra code that gives me the thing that I need and then behind the scene. So it's like the, it's like Aws X but like for everybody. So that's sort of what I'm thinking on that one. I'm gonna come and maybe back this one off. I feel like this is the one to start with. That's the, that's the hot one for me. I mean, I'm gonna, I wanna write all these. Yeah. But I think that's the one that you're going to get the most, um, attention for. I think that that one is going to be hotter than the other two. I mean, at least at, at most conferences I know you, you shop around with, like, enterprise e, and, like, more executive level people than I do. Those people. Like you better than me, you better. But they don't invite me to speak at their conferences. And I mean, they, I'm just a fun decoration for them. They just think they think I'm amusing. You know, you are amusing. Oh, I'm, I'm fucking amusing as shit. I'm, I'm so goddamn amusing. And, you know, if you wanna pay me money just because you think I'm amusing to talk at your conference, like, I'll take that money. Like, who's really, who's really winning and losing here? But so I'm just sort of right because I've, I've been thinking about this for a long time, like, because I, you know, I spent a long time teaching people how to use chef, which meant they had to use ruby. And so people tend to think that we don't know how to write programs and we don't know, we don't know programming, we don't know development. But number one, so there's a couple of pieces as one is. Yes, you do. We just call it different things. This is not, by the way, if you're wondering how you write an abstract? You don't, um, you don't just like straight. This is, this is not me writing the abstract yet. This is me getting my words out. Um, and also I'm gonna make this, um, hello, former Pulumi person by that. Do you mean like former Pulumi user or former Pulumi employee c tangent? I'm trying to think if that's like a slack name I've seen. Is it, is there a way that I? Oh, hi. Oh, hi. Hello? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What up there we go. Hey, how you doing this? Not let you go any bigger than 200%? Ok. Well, whatever. I don't know. Ok. So for example, uh jeez, I used to say this all the time. So what was it? But we don't call it debugging, we call it troubleshooting. We don't call it coding, we call it scripting, right? We don't call it version or a deployment or, I don't know. Um This was, this is, I used to say you don't call it a code, you know that you got a vibe here, I think. Oh, thank you. I'm glad you love all the cool stuff we're doing. Where are you at now? Or? Like, I actually, I hope that you're not anywhere and you're like, willingly taking a shit load of time off, like slash a sabbatical because it's been a couple of years. So let's see here if we do um is change control a real like business word. Yes, it is. You. This is, this is how I I know you haven't had to live through some terrible, terrible things in the enterprise. No, because this is an I service like a change control review board. So let me, let me tell you about some things that were in my life. Do I? Is this like a like sit on my knee and let me tell you. No, no, no. This is like uh a um cool build systems. Um Awesome. The So for example, let's say in the organization I was in, I wanted to do anything. I was going to reboot a server was gonna patch, a server was going to touch production in any shape or form. What you have to do is you would put in a change control ticket. And then once a week, this group called the Change Control Review board would meet and look at all the change requests that went in and tell you if they were approved or not, if you could go do those things that the if you did all your paperwork, did all your stuff. And there's lots of fun stories about it. Like um I remember I had one when I was at an insurance company where I was retiring a server. So fundamentally what the change control was, I was going to shut down this mobile network server and it got kicked back at me because I did not write in the rollback plan. I was like the rollback plan is I turn it back on, dude. That's Matt. I'm tired, just like hearing about that. I'm tired and look, look poor. Spooky is having a sneezing fit in the background. My poor cat over that. It's mm No, thank you. Um OK. So I'm gonna try to find, I think you have a vibe here though. In this, in this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you do. OK. Windows key. It's a control on my computer. Yeah, it sits control on mine. Oh Yeah. Yeah, I, I was Yeah. Command command plus. Yeah. There we go. Um Yes. Yeah. Yeah, you definitely have a vibe going here with this. So, so, but that's kind of in the but, but I think that that can even be in the abstract like this, this point, this can go in the abstract. I, so when I write a talk personally, um I like repeating whatever I use for the abstract within my talk every time because I like whatever points I plan to make like in totality I, I have in the abstract. So those points uh come up usually within the first like couple of slides. Um For me that's just, that's just the way I write a talk. But you know, I our talks don't usually sound very similar actually. No. And again that it's like, oh man, I'm just driving me nuts because there was like this good um oh what is, that's somebody else's topic. Um, I wish I could remember, like, there's this blog article that was about writing abstracts and it was just sort of about, like, just how to construct them, right? Like, just order of sentence kind of thing. Um, and I usually just sort of, as you would see, you know, just sort of vibe and just start writing words, but I thought it would be interesting to go through that exercise. That's, yeah, it's also, I, I often find it easier to, at least when I'm not really sure where I'm going with an idea for a talk. I find it considerably easier to bounce it off of other people. Hence, they, you know, like writing a talk at the hotel bar at a conference, right? Like to be clear for people who are watching, who, like, don't speak in public for a living. I don't mean, like writing the talk, I'm about to give at that conference at the bar. I mean, like writing a talk that I might give like four months from then, uh, at the bar. Uh, because developer advocates are um, largely social people with either undiagnosed or untreated A DH D. And so we, um, we feed off of each other's energy very well. Ah, ok. Good. I found what I was looking for. Um, ok. So actually I'm going to, um, I think this is gonna work. So this is just because this might be of interest to people who are watching. So I'm gonna step through this, this was um based on. So when I was at Pager duty, we used to do internal speaker training and it was actually led by the DAS and stuff. And so I gave the module that was about um writing CFP S. So this is based on, but then this was, this was something else it was based on. But just a couple, I'm gonna skim through a couple of these things, blah, blah, blah. These are a few things to know. Um OK. This is, this is what I was looking for, right? It's sort of the layout of the abstract, right? Pain Solution. Then you're supporting statements, personal humor optional. Um So that's what I was, this is what I wanted to see. So, so if we sort of were gonna say if we want to try it in this way, OK. The pain is I want to, you want to use infrastructure as code tools like Pulumi or CD K or whatever, but you're an ops person, you don't know how to write code like those fancy pants developers with fancy uh they mechanical keyboards and uh studios. This is this is also the stream of consciousness thing that is happening here, right? OK. So the pain is so then, but then if we said so that's the pain, then the solution solution, you actually number one, number one, you already do know quite a bit about how to do this. We just think about us up, folks just use different words. Example, example. However, there are also some, however, there is no need to be the biggest and I'm gonna start using phrases. I won't go in the abstract but I just don't know what to put them in. So rockstar Rust Asian, oh that's uh on the block just to get some stuff done. This talk. I'll explore some of the basic principles of software engineering, which we are just gonna call programming because we are not the aforementioned Fancy pants developers. Perhaps we work for a living. We're not really gonna put these words in there. Um Let's see. Uh OK. 00 Amy Hoy's dream fixed form. Yeah. Interesting. Um So, so if we kind of went through there, oops and then now we have our, so like the idea is like your supporting piece, I guess the supporting piece is already in there and then, all right. So uh all right. So I, I would save this uh like kind of fragmented bit you have at the top because I think that's content for the actual. Yeah, just like, don't delete it because I was deleting like the, the, the words that didn't mean anything. Um Bye. OK. So if we kind of, so, first of all, I don't think we're all right. So if we say hello, OK. Well, maybe if we OK, there is no need. Hey, Matt Hey, Kat, I like how you say we are OPS, we work for a living at the bottom there. But you don't work in OPS anymore. No, I know. And I'm also not gonna actually put that in there because it is. It's just was, yeah, this was just me getting kind of a thought out there. But it's, um, I mean, I could also, I mean, that's a joke that you can make like, with your mouth words while you're getting. No, no, I was, I, I was just sort of, I, I felt like I needed to put a tag in here but it's gonna change to something else. Like that's not the joke for the abstract. But so if we kind of were sitting here and saying, OK, we want to use. Yeah. So, ah your, I actually kind of think not the, not the or whatever. I, I personally do like the Fancy Pants developers with their mechanical keyboards and their visual studios. Yeah. I mean, it makes you sound like you're making like a boomer joke, but in a good way, you know. Right. Well, that's exactly. Yeah. If that's the energy you're going for, you're, you're nailing it. So I would keep it personally. Right. Um So I, I might even make it like more ridiculous and instead of saying mechanical, say like mechanical or something like, 00 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, like mechanical. Yeah, because that parallel the visual studios. Yeah. Yeah, you gotta have it up, gotta have it up the first bit. The good news is you already know quite a bit about how to do this um uh works. You mean words? Sorry, I gotta brush my lash extensions. I just got them filled today and they're like kind of wonky. I have to keep them, keep them in check because they're fucking long as shit. Matt. Have you ever considered lash extensions? Bye bye. Yeah. Uh Should I? Well, I mean, you've complained more than once about like not looking as good as me on stream. Well, that's a given I'm telling you it's mostly the lash extensions. Yeah, I think you should try it. Perhaps they should. Ok? So there's no need to be the biggest rock star Rust station. I don't know if I would say Rust Station because um I, I wanna redo the this, there's no need to be whatever, right? I see why you're saying rockstar rest station, you, you want to bring in a programming language and Rockstar Rust station gives you that like alliteration and it's, well, I want to take Rockstar away a little bit because I don't, what, what I'm trying to get at is you don't have to be like a very, I don't wanna say good, good is not the word I'm looking for, but like we're trying to say like it's just good enough, right? Like minimal viable programmer. Actually, there's no need to be to get stuff done. You just, we just need to be the MVP minimum viable programmer. Oh, that's good. That's, that's fucking good, Mattie. Actually, this almost works. The only reason that this is that I feel like this is a little too inside and people won't know what I'm talking about. I, I think that's too inside, but I think you should name this name, the minimum viable program. Yeah. There's no need to be an expert software engineer like that. I think that's, that, that's a really good point. Yeah, I think the MVP Minimum. The title of the talk. Minimum. Viable programmer. Yeah, that's the title of the talk now. Yeah, I'm, I'm wondering about uh sub because I don't know if the title is getting. Yeah, just use, use programming for OPS as the, like the subtitle but like minimum viable programmers too. You just need to be the, wait, I don't understand. Don't need to be the MVP. Be the MVP. I don't, I don't get the chat. Wait, I'm sorry, not cat. What were you saying? So, minimum, like, do I do minimal Bible programmer? Programming 101 for OPS or? Yeah, I think so because like Bible programmer is just like, it's too good to only use it in the abstract like that, that it's, it's too fucking catchy. Most oh most valuable versus well, but I, I agree with you. But what we're trying to get to is you don't have to be for, for the, the audience of this. It's not about being the most valuable. It's, it's getting the minimum that you need to be able to, to write your info code because the thing is people think they have to be the most valuable or are you saying Angel? Are you saying you don't have to be the most valuable program or you just have to be the minimum valuable maddie get a drink. Yes. He's saying you don't need to be the most valuable you just need, I got it. Yeah. Um, but I think that's actually that goes into um, the talk content don't need because I think I almost feel like that's the thing we don't want to give away in the abstract. Like it's a, that's a really good line, you know, the most valuable programmer, just the minimum programmer. Although that could still come into the abstract. I'm gonna, I'm gonna um, I, I think I see, I see. Oh no, I see it how it is. There's no need to be the, no, no Angel. You're right. That's exactly how this goes. There's no need to be the most valuable programmer just to be the programmer. Which Angel is that. This is an Angel Pizzaro. I'm really bad at like remembering people's last names and also faces. It's not Angel from Circle. OK. OK. That's Angel Rivera. OK. Thank you. How many viewers do we have? 09. Hello. Nine people watching What are you doing? Oh, that's what's up. Just vibing. This talk will explore some of the basic principles of software engineering. We're just gonna call programming because we are not the aforementioned Fancy plans developers. Eating a cookie. What kind of cookie decompressing? You're decompressing by watching us. Jesus. Seriously, I'm rewatching The Witcher for like the ninth time because you know what? I ran out of King of the Hill for like the ninth time. So let's see. Ok. Um chocolate chip is is solid. Hey, yeah, chocolate chip. I finally sent cat chocolate chip cookies. I owed her for like a year. Oh my God. Yeah, they were really good too but yeah, you owed me those cookies for like a fucking eternity and it was for like what, what was I, what did I do to I chilled for party games at the end of it? Like yeah, yeah. No, I know this homemade cookies and and then like eight months later I did I was giving a keynote and you offered me a cookie if I shilled for Devops party games at the end of my keynote. So just a heads up everybody. I am available for purchase. Um I am available for purchase in the form of cookies. Um I like chocolate chip. I like anything with lemon. I like uh white chocolate macadamia nuts, Snicker doodles. My favorite. I'm also available for purchase in the form of brown liquor. Um I like my whiskey aggressively smoky. Like I need it to taste like smoked dirt. Do not like Irish whiskey. And if you send me Maker's Mark, uh I will pour it down the sink and send you a video. I love oatmeal raisin cookies. One of my favorite cookies. Oatmeal raisin cookies are incredible. Especially if they're iced. My only issue with them is the is the bamboozle, right? Like I look at it and I think I'm gonna get a chocolate chip and then like I get like whiplash from actually biting into an oatmeal raisin but an oatmeal raisin cookie with icing on top. Fuck. Let me tell you this was, this is my thing because I have the opposite bamboozle when you go to pot belly and they have oatmeal chocolate chip and I feel bamboozled because I'm wanting the raisin. So I feel bamboo that can happen. OK? So we kind of got this and then I guess I outline I can write the island. I got, I'm gonna marinade on this end. But I think this is the, I think this is in good shape and you can move on to like poking in an abstract for another one while you let this marinate in the back of your brain. OK? So you got on that shit again, I am I'm getting to you. I got you. OK? So this is sort of talking about how you know infrastructures code is not just a tool. So we all. Um I'm just gonna do this. So I remember that's the idea. So we all, everyone loves infrastructure code. It's fun. It's a lot more fun to write form, per form. What do they call, per form plans or polluting programs? Yeah, I think they're plans instead of clicking around in a console. Right. Trevor. Nothing stresses me out. Like the fucking Aws console. Like, genuinely, the whole reason I use GCP over aws is because the GCP console doesn't make me like spiral into depression every time I look at it, part of infrastructure isn't even the most important part and we treat well, it's something to just it up stack overflow. Some example, repos to copy and some existing ideas without it without ideas. Uh Or I'm sorry, did you say something about I BS? No, but you could um hot girls have I BS. They do. This is what I'm told. Um What I was gonna, it's, it's well, something to just uh if you don't, if we don't consider larger concepts, we'll quickly find ourselves itchy Butt syndrome, things faster, but not necessarily. And let's talk, you will I know illustrates the core concepts around first including proper putting um this thing, not even testing. It's like, it's like because that's just sort of, but it's like uh including um because it's not just about the pipe like this, it seems like we always want to go back to about using a pipeline and that's just one of the things. Um Yeah, to testing. Um, I feel like there needs to be some more in this. What are some of the, I wanna look and see what my other notes said. Yeah. Oh, no, I just said, what are the concepts? Um, I want to sort of say it's like a story. Oh. Mm. Like what keeps making noise on my computer? I'm gonna think more about this one for a second. I wanna go back to this. OK. All right. So when we're thinking about like this organizing thing, right? So organization is one of the hardest problems in computer science, no matter what people tell you about the uh oh, you may have heard that uh I just um coding is naming conventions, naming things, but really it's off by one ears. Well and off. I understand. Can, oh, you broke prod today? Fuck. Yeah. Congratulations. Hell, yeah, I'm so proud of you. That's good. The first time. Is it the first time you've broken pride or no? Uh Unfortunately, no. Good, good shit. Uh Well, I hope, I hope everything recovered and uh, congratulations. Good job. Hug ups. Indeed. Hm. Yes. Do relax. Definitely take a bath. You know, draw yourself a hot bath, put some salts in there. Do a sheet mask. Hm. No, you have an opportunity for a joke in the first paragraph. That's like, yeah, I'm trying to, the, the second paragraph is a potential other first paragraph. It's an all paragraph. I haven't decided how I feel about that first paragraph yet and two giant mess our DRS files disorganized. Uh, mind you of, yeah. What, what's something super disorganized or remind you of if you're, um, my living room? Well, of cats living room. Well, no, but like of like, like I was like of your bedroom floor or something of just of spaghetti, spaghetti, spaghetti code. Well, I get that remind you of that time you spilled a whole pot of spaghetti on your and just like that and you won't be able to easily. Yeah. Um it's more and more I want spaghetti. I think I'm gonna order, I'm gonna doordash spaghetti for dinner. Shit. I want pasta real bad. Now there you go. I got some work to do after this too. So uh oh fuck. So chat uh security is weak, eyes heavy. There's comments pr already code spaghetti. Yeah. Yeah. Don't forget to tip your driver. I always excessively tip my doordash drivers. I, I used to work in the service industry and I used to be a strip club bartender and the result of that is that now I compulsively overt tip. So there are worse uh worse things to compulsively do. Yeah, it's not, not bad. So that just means my, my bar tab is expensive but um that's OK. Cool. Mhm I noticed that you consistently do like a an in this talk situation. So one of the things is I just, well, I always sort of like to have like, kind of actionable takeaways, which I did too. I mean, so you're, you're a conference organizer? You review CFP S more than I do, right? Like I review them for coupon and for like a couple of other events. But your DEV ops days you, you presumably do this more than I do. Right. Sure. So, like longer at least is that in your experience like a super common like paradigm in CFP S that in this talk, which, which kind of feels like an inconclusion situation to me, like from your like high school research papers. Yeah, I mean, here's the thing is to me it doesn't bother me that it exists, it doesn't bother me. I just don't see it that often but I see it from you consistently. Yeah, it's, it's one of those things where um yeah, so, so I mean, it could also, it doesn't have to always be the words in this talk. That's just sort of also some of this is my like boiler plate, how I start and then kind of move it around and, and sort of say I will do this or whatever. But, but I do like the thing is the reason why it's why, why it sounds like, oh it's an inconclusion. But this is the point that's saying this is what's gonna be in the talk, like specific things that this will be so and the reason why I say it that way is because it actually does very much actively give an indicator that this is the, the first ones were about where the problem set. This is like the actionable or this is the takeaways, right? Or this is what the talk is gonna do because the thing before was explaining what the talk is um addressing. And for me as a reviewer, I, I don't want to see an abstract that just sort of talks about the idea. I actually want to know how you're huge fucking pet peeve of mine is when you just like you're, when your abstract is super vague. My, my dude, my dude, I need you to give me something. Not only do I need you to give me something, I need you to give the audience something because if this is a multi track event, why the fuck are they gonna see your talk over somebody else's? You have to give somebody give away something like you are not ruining the value of your talk by giving away like one or two points you're gonna make in the talk, in your abstract. You, you're, you're not, you're not ruining anything. You're not devaluing your talk. I'm actually like way less likely to accept your talk if your abstract is super vague and doesn't include any of the points you're gonna make and how, because I'm not in your brain. So I need that to determine whether or not this is a good talk as a reviewer. So please uh give away something for Christ's sake. This is another one too like after watching this talk or not be able have a Yeah, I use that if it's like if it's a technical talk, I lean pretty heavily on like a you expect to come out of this talk with an understanding of XYZ in the context of fucking N to like illustrate how collaborative approaches cross developments of enabling all levels of the organization to take advantage. Mhm Practice. Yeah, bullet bullet pointed lists actually work really well for that. I mean, because when you're sort of hitting like those, those, those pieces and i it's kind of the thing that I will say is that the um oh I, I believe actually if you take a look, I think I even say this in here that oh maybe I don't have it in in this one anymore. Um I used to used to mention it that like bullet, bullet points versus pros are there. It is, yeah, bullets, bullets versus pros is the tabs versus spaces of the abstract. And you have no idea who's because I will tell you there are reviewers that want to read it as pros and they will not like it if it's a bullet point and just as many will want bullet points as that. So the thing that's most important is right, the way that is natural to you that you feel you can communicate the best. Um, so that's, yeah, because I've, I've, I've, I've gone through enough with that where I've seen people who are like, oh my God, don't just list a bunch of bullet points. I want you to write it as a story so I can understand it. And then, yeah, so I'm like, I'm sure that I, I, this isn't a surprise to you, Maddie, but I don't know who these people are in the chat. So I don't, I don't know if they seen me talk or if they like know me personally at all, but I, I have difficulties shutting the fuck up. Uh So um my slides are typically like one word or one sentence and an image and I am going to ramble because you can do, you can do one of two things you can read the slides or you can listen to me talk. Yes, like those are your voices and I want you to listen to me talk because my talks aren't like I, I might be submitting the same abstract, but the tech talk is gonna be a little bit different every time I give it right at most, I'll give you a slide like if there's some shit I really need you to remember or I really want to drive home. My slide might have like three bullet points on it but I do not, I do not write prose on slides Oh Right. I know you what this was talking about in an abstract, not in your talk. Oh No, no pros on a slide is a different story or whatever, but it's, but sometimes you will definitely find reviewers that are like, don't write prose. I want a bullet pointed list and just as many will say, I don't want just a bunch of books. So I'm saying, right. The way you're abstract, write the way that you can communicate clearly. Yeah. Whatever, whatever your talk is different. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, Nova. Uh and somebody here from Fancy Friday. Um Yeah, I, I go, I go back and forth on it. Like I have seen submissions that was all bulleted lists that were fucking great and submissions that were terrible. So it really does come down to both like uh is this a good talk idea? And is this the way that like the speaker best communicates? I, I personally prefer a mix. Like I want like an intro and like an ideal abstract for me is an intro and altro paragraph and then like fucking three bullet points. That's why I was saying it's not like one of those things like you must do, it's like do it the way that helps you particular thing you're saying. It's very Yeah. Yeah. Um Let's see. Um Well, it's OK to only follow cat, there's more people follow and not Maddie. So it's all right. You should, you should be using acetone, not peeling your nail polish off. It's gonna make your nails flake be nice to your fingernails. They take forever to grow back. OK. So, all right. So, and I'm sorry, I don't recognize like twitch handles. So I'm not unless your twitch handle is unless your twitch handle is the same as your Twitter handle. And your Twitch like profile picture is the same as your Twitter profile picture. I haven't been to Fancy Friday in a while. I should go. Maybe I'll do that. No, not this Friday. I have dinner plans. Uh, maybe I'll just show up late and already like, kind of drunk actually. No, I think this actually does. Um, although this seems repetitive, uh, it's actually just almost works like that. But where's the joke? You wanted me to make a joke in here? Oh, ok. So the, the joke here is, is one, joke. You, you, the, you make the off by one error joke implied. So every, most people are gonna know that the joke is like the hardest. Yeah, there's, there's one problem there, there's two problems and computer science, whatever, blah, blah, blah. So the off by one error portion is implied. So you find a second real. Yeah. Oh, sorry. I don't want to interrupt it in the chat. These are hopefully for a legit, upcoming talk. These are just abstracts I'm writing to propose. Yeah, we're, we're, this is just like these are ideas for talks that we might see if any people might wanna see me give. So the the implied joke here is you, you say you may have heard that the hardest problem in coding is naming things but really it's organization and other problem. Oh And so imply, yeah, like that. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Imply the off by one error. Yeah. Two bits walk into a bar and say let's OK. Are we actually ending this at the top of the hour? Matt? Yeah, I think so because I need to go do other work that I have to get done tonight still. Yeah, I just have to order. It wouldn't work well on a two minutes walk into a, that's, that's cute. Yeah. Ok. All right. Ok. So I feel like I still feel like this is, this is the best one so far is a minimum liable programmer. Yeah, that, that one slaps, that's a banger. This I need to think about a lot more. Unfortunately, I need to think about it tonight because I have to get some of these done by tomorrow. But that's ok. Um, so, all right. So if we, ok, so sort of thinking this through, I mean, these are fairly reasonable. Um, and, and, and I think they're the point of like I can, I think I'll, I'll write like a little, uh, like kind of high level outline of the points I would hit you ready for me to sort of set to like kind of review with the rest of our team because that's the other thing too. Like, I'm a big fan of taking my first pass at these and like, obviously I myself of that, of that habit, I'll send you, let me send you the, um, like drive folder for mine so you can see what, um, what mine ended up looking like. Uh Sorry, Chad, I'm not gonna share this one everywhere. Um Do, do, do I put it in my screen and share it though, right? Like, because people won't be able to, won't be able to access it anyway because it's inside of our company, right? Yeah. Let me slack it to you. Oh OK. Um So I've locked the drive to you. There are two talks in there and you can see what the um the outlines look like too. Um Oh my God, I haven't looked at this since like a week after I wrote it because I usually like write it and then I let it marinate for a few days. Then I go back and look at it. Uh I have a line on here. Nobody shuts the fuck up about web scale. Yeah. True. That sounds like something I wrote when I was mad about people using the word web scale. So, so to, to the, the point um what, what I, I feel like I'm gonna finish up tonight is tweak this a little bit throw kind of the first pass at the outline, which I have a feeling for most of these and then they're kind of ready for me to send to the rest of my, the rest of the team and cat included all those. She's already to kind of, you know, give their two sets because a lot of this is you kind of, for me, it's definitely, like I said, first of all, it's me marinating on it, but also, um when you have someone that you are um you know, kind of know, knows how you, you know, think in a different way and be like, OK, here's a different way. And also even sometimes because there's stuff you want to watch out for in this, like we can occasionally use other language, we can just, you know, just don't always catch it, you know, a lot of times uh this again having a, you know, a, a team of people with different background, even even to the perspective of like, you know, I was talking shit about software engineers and the one and you know, someone who's a former is a more, more from that background might look at that and say like, actually I would see this and it would make me really mad and I'd be like, I don't care if it makes you mad, I'm gonna do anything because we're very collaborative that way. We are, we are very collaborative, we are a collaborative team. Also, we're all hot and cool also. True. So um what just keeps making this noise? I keep hearing my dude. It's my discord. Oh that's you. OK. Got it because I was like, I was trying to place I was like, what do I have? That's making, making noise there. Well, this has been fun. Oh my dude, this is, it's been, been, been on there for a bit. We got it done. We did. Well, I mean, mostly done. I got, I got done what I wanted to get done in this hour. Um, and I'm gonna for a little bit and go do a different project. I have, I've got a couple of podcast episodes to edit, so I'm gonna work on that for a little bit and I'll probably come back to these a little and, you know, it's a good thing. I got half a case of Diet Coke because it's gonna be a, a night of, uh, of doing some, doing some, some work. But it's ok. It's fine. Yeah, we gotta slang some work. I gotta slang some, um, I gonna slang some mark down. Yeah, I need to do that too. I need to update one of, uh, one of our pages. Just needs another example that I said I would get done by the end of the end of the month. Hey, raise your hand, raise your hand if you're doing well in the chat. If, uh, if it's the end of the month and you're doing all your, your last uh and a quarter deliverables. I think Nova is making fun of me for sounding like a tech bro. And frankly, that's fair. That's, I mean, it's, it tracks. Oh I don't have a Patta Gui vest unfortunately. So, so for any, I just got an Uber eats gift card for $100. What the fuck from him? From the, the, the, that beyond event that I was an MC for today? Damn. So that was nice. All right. Although it was funny, although I just ordered doordash like right before this, I'm like, well, shit, I would have got, I got a $200 Amazon gift card from uh the CNCF for program committee duties and I used it towards a new bed frame on Amazon dot com. I thought about buying the, the but uh coordinating the people that know how to untuck things and making sure monitors works. Yeah, I, I Nova Yeah, I know. I know. I know. Yeah, it's, it's a lot of work. It's a lot of work and here's a $200 Amazon gift card, you know, $200 more than then zero. We do it for the community. If it wasn't literally a dollar thing, I could have made the joke about, you know that in a buck and a half will get you right on the tea, but it doesn't work. And I'm also pretty sure the tea costs a lot more than a dollar and a half now. But, you know, or say that in a buck and a half will get you right on the l but that's more than that too. So, yeah, like I've ever lived in Boston, you know, I, I have been to Boston one time so I can't comment. Um, I will say that Marta, uh, is like 2 50. Uh, I think, uh, bus trip in Seattle is like, is like 2 25 2 25 ish. Now, I, I don't know, my bus pass is on auto load. So, uh I think it's 2 25 but uh the last time I was in Atlanta, Marta was like 2 50. What? So it's two, it's 2 42 40 is a ride on the t so, so that in $2.40 that's not as good as a buck and a half and a half. I used to when I was in, when I was in high school. I worked at this paint store and there was this one contractor who bought from us a lot and his thing any time he was saving money or whatever, it was always uh calculated in games of pinball. You'd be like, yeah, don't, don't you? No, no. Give me that dollar back. That's four games of pinball, you know. So, ok. Well, an all day pass for 3 50 I mean, if you're gonna, you know, seems reasonable to me. Well, and I think on, on that, I think we're, we're, yeah, I think we're good. We gotta go. So, thanks for hanging out with us, everybody. And, you know, um this was also a little bit of an experiment. We're kind of curious to see if we get more people tuning in to our uh and, and for public services. Yeah, there's that, that's for, yeah, just watching us do our jobs but together. Right. Well, no, it also was an experiment in the time. So normally lu vision is like at noon Pacific on a, on, on Thursday. And I was kind of wondering if, you know, we, maybe that's not the, the best. So, actually, you know. Yeah. So definitely helped to decompress and stuff. But maybe we might start doing these, you know, I just sort of arbitrarily picked when we, when I do the stream usually. And, you know, I mean, to be fair, I was gonna say we could, we could say one of the factors is that, you know, cat was on it and we were just, but we actually did this exact kind of stream a couple of weeks ago, but like in the middle, I think it was last week. No, it was two weeks ago. No, it wasn't last week because I was on vacation. It was two weeks ago. I don't think we had quite as much. So, I, I think there's something. Yeah. No, I think you're right. I think maybe we should be doing these a little later. This is a good time. So, um, but that said tomorrow, if you do want to watch a stream, it's a little bit earlier at uh noon, Pacific tomorrow, I'll be up on the same channel. Um Not as much vibing a little more doing Pulumi but uh you know, definitely match that uh subscribe or follow button or whatever. I know, subscribe is different on Twitch. Follow on Twitch. But some of these folks might be actually, I think almost everybody's on Twitch. Do we have, we have turned on on Twitch? I don't think so. We do not, you cannot, you cannot sub to us on Twitch. I mean, are we not able to like, you have to be at a certain level to do that? Yeah, I don't think we're um at whatever thing. What do we need to, I'm looking. Yeah. Yeah. Nova. I know. I know why you're making that face. And yes, I wanted to go there but I'm not going to on a work stream. So at least this one isn't being streamed to youtube uh to link linkedin. That's it. Yeah, that's what I meant. Yeah, that's the um so wait, so how do you, oh Achievements, right. So we have to be affiliate to have a subscribe button. Yeah. So we are. Yeah, I don't know. Well, maybe we'll get there. We'll figure it out. Yeah. So seven days streaming over 30 days which yeah, we have the 50 plus. Yeah. So here's what we got. I mean, just in case anybody's curious, uh we've got the followers the 30 day performance, you know, stream for eight hours, we had four. So we don't quite hit that stream on seven different days. Um And then average of our average viewers is about right. But yeah, uh think so. Thank you. Thank you. Perfect. So we'll just keep it going. But it's ok. Y'all can sub to me on Twitter though. There you go. And when you get your first or the last super fun some time and then they can really sub you. All right on that note. Thanks for tuning in. Uh See you all on the internet. Good night. All good. Thank you.

---
