---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud Engineering, Architectures and Platforms"
title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud..."
meta_desc: |
    Join Pulumi CTO and expert panelists Joe Beda, Al Sene, Jason Warner, and Corey Scobie as they discuss how architectures and platforms are evolving...
url_slug: cloud-engineering-summit-2020-future-cloud-engineering-architectures-platforms
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud Engineering, Architectures and Platforms"
  description: |
    Join Pulumi CTO and expert panelists Joe Beda, Al Sene, Jason Warner, and Corey Scobie as they discuss how architectures and platforms are evolving and how that will impact the role of Cloud Engineers in the future.
  sortable_date: 2020-11-11T00:30:07Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/JoWznwb1-xE
transcript: |
    Well, welcome everyone to today's panel on the future of cloud engineering architectures and platforms. Uh My name is Luke Coin. I'm the CTO of Pulumi and I'm joined today by an incredible set of panelists uh with deep insights from across the industry, uh who hopefully can share some of their insights um what they're seeing both today and into the near future. Uh in terms of the architectures and platforms that are being adopted in the cloud. Uh So to get started, I wanted to sort of invite each one of our panelists to introduce themselves. Uh Tell us your name, what you're working on right now. Uh And just for fun, maybe share your favorite database technology. Uh So, Corey, uh do you want to kick us off? Sure. Uh Thanks. Look, I'm Corey Scobie. I'm CTO at Chef Software. Um Most people will know chef for chef, but we're also the um the proprietors of insect and habitat projects as well in the security and application management space. Um And my favorite database management software is none. I'm wondering how many, how many good wrong answers we'll have here. I think that um great. All right, So uh maybe al do you wanna introduce yourself next? Yeah. Uh Hello everybody. My name is, I am a VP of engineering at Digital Lotion. My responsibilities are infrastructure of the service. Um So I manage all the software teams that develop our compute network storage products. Um And I also have teams that are responsible for our infrastructure management as well. And uh my favorite database uh management tool. Uh I would have to say my sequel, I guess it's a good, good safety because spend way too much time in there and I are way too invested in my sequel. Great. All right. Uh Joe, do you wanna do go next? Yeah. Hi, everyone. I'm Joe Beta. I'm a, a principal engineer at VM Ware. I came to VM Ware uh through the HEP acquisition. And so uh we're doing this thing called Tanz, which is bringing together uh all of VM Ware's Kubernetes and sort of modern application investments. Uh Previous to that, I was at Google and helped start the Cobert project and my favorite database software. I got two answers here. I'll give you two flip answers, I think, you know, number one is CS V, right? And number two is Excel, I think in general, I'm not smart enough to run a database. So, you know, we'll, we'll just say that great. Yeah. Awesome. OK. And then uh Jason, everybody. I'm Jason Warner. I'm the CTO of github. Um Before that I was the VP of engineering at Bark. And I would say that my flippant answer is Blockchain for the database. Uh See if anyone's gonna torch me for that. But I have to say that, you know, my Sequels treated us well, I get help but post treat us incredibly well at, so I'm gonna have to go with those two. Awesome. All right. So yeah, so to kick off our panel, I think, you know what we want to cover today is really sort of where folks see uh you know, the, the cloud engineering platforms of the current and the future and just what you're doing inside uh your organizations and what you're seeing with the customers that you're working with and where you're seeing companies going. And so one thing to start us off maybe um at Pulumi I'd say, and really across the industry, we, we've seen a tremendous uptake of cloud native infrastructures and a lot of that driven by Kubernetes. Uh and would love to hear how folks think about the impact they're seeing CTI having on the architectures and platforms that are being adopted inside organizations uh today. And so maybe uh Jason, do you wanna kind of start off on this one? Sure. Um But I'd like to correct that I, I hear it's pronounced and I Joe, is that, is that right? Is that how we're supposed to do that? But when we picked the name, we read it and we pronounced it and we went with it. But then, you know, you'll give a talk to folks who actually speak Greek and they'll start correcting you and it gets pretty embarrassing pretty fast. But I think something like that is correct. I'm sure I'm butchering it now also. Um, no, I, so to answer the question directly. II, I see a lot of adoption of, of, and I see people really, what they're really trying to do is they understand that attractions are, are, are real in the world and that is the most valuable one we can have in their architecture at the moment. And they're trying to figure out everyone is talking about hybrid strategies and cross cloud and all of that sort of stuff and, but they don't fully understand why they need that yet. So they're trying to hedge a little bit but Ktis is very clearly the, the front runner of that and what they're really trying to do now on where, where we sit in the world where sits in the world, we're seeing a lot of demand for what I, what I basically call um uh protecting their future self. They don't want to bind themselves into any really bad decisions at the moment, but they want to also keep themselves open for future optionality and we try to show them how to do that. OK. Uh How, how are you seeing things kind of at the uh infrastructure provider level? It is big Uh So we have been using internally for our control plane for, for a number of years. Um And uh we, we ended up creating a, a as a service product uh that we released uh about a year and a half ago. Um And, and we're seeing a lot of adoption from that and interacting with those customers are using that, you know, that, that product, you, you learn a lot about some of the, you know, some of the flexibility that they have for their environments and you know, they're able to deploy their containers just about anywhere they want. Um You know, certainly we, we love to have them all but, but we realize that uh the multi cloud strategy is, is facilitated by Cotti by so much, it just makes everything so much easier, abstracts, everything simplifies application management, scaling and all the goodies that you know, that, that, that, that cloud native developers just don't have to worry about it just is that next level of, of abstraction and simplification of application development. So, so we're seeing AAA very, very big um uptake in, in, in that option uh internally we use it as well. Uh So, so it, it definitely helps to, to have um you know, that, that, that internal expertise as well and, and, and uh be able to have uh uh tho those, those, those uh features being used internally to manage our infrastructure as well. Great uh Joe core either of you. Uh Joe. Joe, I'm sure has lots of thoughts on this. Uh uh Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, there's a, there's a bunch of impacts that we've seen with Kubernetes. Um, for me, the most interesting thing is like when we talk to customers, it's everything from very small companies all the way up to sort of, you know, huge financials and when you get to these larger customers, what you find is that, you know, hey, which cloud do you use? And they're like all of them, where do you run everywhere? And so the name of the game these days for those types of, of users is that they're just looking for any way to start bringing a layer of consistency, a layer, a way of actually starting to approach the sort of intrinsic complexity that they have to deal with. And I mean, hopefully fingers crossed kubernetes ends up being a net positive there in terms of, hey, you know, if you can get teams working on a platform that's Kubernetes based, you have a certain level of uh consistency across different environments and it's not gonna be exactly the same between Digital Ocean and Amazon and on Prem. But you know, there's enough commonality there that it's not a total retraining as teams, as skills, you know, as people need to move between these different areas. And then the next impact that I think is really interesting is that the, the distributed models, the distribute distributed control models that kubernetes embodies um have proved useful for managing containers and managing sort of application level stuff. We're starting to see, folks use the Kubernetes infrastructure and sort of, you know, uh uh the, you know, distributed system patterns in new ways that go beyond just containers. And I think that's, we're still early on in that journey, but I think it's a really, really exciting journey to be on. Definitely Corey any, any thoughts on the impact you're seeing uh from? Yeah, I, I think the um obviously the industry impact is, is um indisputable uh in terms of how it's affecting, not just the way that hyper scale web companies thought about um getting applications to their compute infrastructure, but the way now that enterprises are doing it as well and it has, it's both like it's upside and it's downside. So, you know, we see companies that have, have decided that if it's right for Google, it's right for, for us. Um and may or may not have the capability to be able to, to actually pull that off at the end of the day. So I I, you know, I think there's, there's no question that KTIS is the most impactful um infrastructure kind of compute technology of, of the modern era. And also it comes to an operational paradigm that is wildly different than the operational paradigm that many of those same customers have experienced over the last 20 years and so there's a learning curve associated with that as well. So, but to, you know, to just echo what others had said, like the abstraction is really obvious and it helps decouple the development process from the operations process. And I think those things are all good things. Right? Definitely. Um Yeah, so, you know, I think we talked a little bit there. I think one of the other uh trends that we've seen sort of in that sort of computing platforms layer has obviously been serverless over the last, you know, several years. Curious if anyone here has sort of thoughts on, you know, what they're seeing with Servis and, and how their sort of views on, on the Servis approach have changed over the last several years. I know this is something that for many people has, has evolved in interesting ways. Uh So curious, curious what this group thinks about service, I'll go first. Uh So I, I think, you know, this, you know, with respect to things like KTIS, I don't think it's an either or um uh you know, and I think, you know, I think Serverless, the easy place to start is things like function as a service. But honestly, I think that's the least interesting part of what we think about with respect to a serverless model. I think most uh usage of serverless would be what I would call glue. I mean, when you look at sort of why are people using Lambda, they're taking an event coming from S3 and putting an entry into Dynamo DB. And this ends up being sort of like a cloud bash to some degree in terms of being able to just glue some stuff together. The interesting thing for me is that the power of glue goes with the square of the number of things you have to glue together. And so the reason why something like LAMBDA is so interesting on Aws is because there's a whole heck of a lot of events and there's a whole heck of a lot of services that you can glue together the opportunity as an industry though, I think is to actually find a way so that we can have a set of events and a set of services that are open and actually stretch across providers. Because I think we're gonna find that if, you know, we can develop a thriving ecosystem that crosses these sort of mega cloud boundaries, it's gonna be a richer world for everybody and it'll be bigger than any one single company can deliver. Jump in and say, I agree with what Joe said entirely. I think that the intellectual possibilities of service are amazing and that they're, they're completely out there. We can have a lot of fun with it and I love the glue way that he describes it. I would say that our current usage and expectations and how we engage with it is just horrendous it, it's a terrible experience and in fact, it, it, it borders on almost neglect to a degree. And I, and you were so nice about Kubernetes. I, I think this has less to do with any one person and more of a feel for why this is important in the first place and just kind of throwing it out there and seeing what happens with it. And I think that we as an industry probably should agree that it's now time for it to mature from the experience perspective. And I, you know, the service dot com is trying to do something and Amazon is trying their own thing. But to your point, Joe, I think if it was a little bit more across the the the cloud, if we think of it that way as an ecosystem, it would be a better experience right now. I feel like you have to buy into a camp and, and I think that that is my real issue as an open source enthusiast through and through someone who talks about developer experience across everything. I I don't really want to buy into a any singular camp. Yeah, I definitely echo the same sentiments. There's definitely a feeling of we have yet to get it right that there are, it seems to me that there are lots of opportunities in the future in terms of how we use it. You know, you know, the idea of having uh you know, a repository of a bunch of functions that you could run or something of that matter, would, would, would, would actually be very cool in terms of how you take open source and just have it be ready to go in some ways as, as, as, as a service. Um So, so, so, so so far, I mean, the the usage I've seen has been tied to a particular application being very specific, but there's definitely a general sense that we're still learning, how do we use this, how do we make the most of it? And obviously as a, as a vendor, you know, it is something that we're, we're approaching and looking at how do we provide something that people can use? I mean, that's, that's who, you know, who we serve. Um But certainly as a, as a company that is built on open source and champions open source, we, we would like to see um you know, uh a larger adoption for sure. Definitely. All right. So maybe switching gears to a uh another kind of topic, I think, you know, one of the things that I'd say we've seen is a lot of organizations. Uh and probably that, you know, we've talked to that I'm sure a lot of you guys talk to are today building their own sort of platform as the services for their organization on top of either or on top of the other cloud native technologies, uh like, like serverless framework or, or things like that. Uh And would love to hear thoughts on, you know, why are we seeing so much reinventing of the wheel in this platform layer? Why is every organization building their own one of these? Why, why haven't we as an industry helped to kind of move that layer of abstraction up? Uh Maybe I'll throw out uh to Jason to start since I know you, you've had experience working in one of the platforms that has, has made some progress. So a obviously um is one of the, the new platform service in the world. We uh we used to joke that every time we walk into an organization, we're gonna see some variant of the platform as a service inside that organization. And I think that people build it just to be honest with you that because it's, it's, it's, it's easy and it's fun to do it to a degree. It's the 80% versus 100% profit. 80% of this is likely quite fun and rather easy to do. You can get going really quickly. And Dennis is a good example of where in the past 234 years, it's made it incredibly easy to get to that point. It's the refinements in the last 20% that make it incredibly difficult to, to get right now. Do I think that organization should do this? I, I'm definitely not against them doing it. I just think that they should go into a wide eye. It's the equivalent of making a database. You know, the 1st 80% of a database is really straightforward and easy to do. The last 20%. If you're gonna throw this into production and chart it and scale it across multi GEOS is going to be a nightmare and you're going to have to invest billions of dollars into that. Is that what you actually want to do? Yeah. You know, it depends. It's funny JC, you mentioned the database analogy and like I have this very fond memory of a long time ago in my career being at ebay and having the CTO of ebay at the time. Tell me that if you could make one change about ebay's distributed web architecture, it would be that he would have his own database because for every dollar that they took in you, they had to give their database vendor 30 cents of it, right? And so, and like it was, uh I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna call out anybody in particular but um but you can imagine but, but also like that's a super valid business reason to do it to your point on pass, right? Um We've gone through this period of democratization of decision making in enterprise it where basically the CTO S and Cio s of the world have taken the change off their teams and said, go and make decisions and there's this incredible world of software that's available out there. And parts and pieces, but it's all a bunch of LEGO kits and, and people are forced to pull it together and so they pull it together in a pattern that they think fits for them. Um But the big challenge that many of the customers that we see at chef having right now is that they have so many patterns in their organization that they can't operationalize anything at scale because everything's a unicorn, right? Like everything is um is a pet and there's no cattle left anymore. And so I think, you know, the the power of being able to pull all this open source software together and build your past that fits your organizational denounce and everything um is is so alluring to, to folks. But the, but the downside of it is that this democratized decision making is created sort of like enterprise chaos at some level. And I believe we believe that there is a period of sort of a correction period that we're entering now where people are looking at ways to simplify the number of patterns that they have to manage at scale operationally. And whether that's to take, build a pass of your own or buy somebody's kit out of the box or whatever, like there's an opportunity there in the industry for sure. And I would like to add one thing we use it there. Corey, I think interestingly, the size and scale and sophistication of your organization is one of the more crucial questions to answer inside this. I, I can't tell you how many organizations I see that are two people. And they said, well, we'll get our product out the door once we fix Xy and Z about our infrastructure. And I just don't understand why they don't, just don't throw it into Roku or Digital Ocean and use rails right out the door or something like that and then work on getting the product market fit and then going into it. But ebay building your own database makes more sense, but that two person startup, making their own database doesn't make any sense. So it has to do with where you are in that growth function too. Corey, you mentioned the, the um period of correction. I'm curious if others have thoughts on, on what that period of correction might look like. What first if you agree that, that we're sort of entering that period where there might be some more consolidation here inside organizations. And, and if so what do you think it would look like? I think a key part of the story there around correction comes down to security and compliance. It's all fun and games until, you know, you have some sort of breach. Um And so, you know, we do a lot of work with financials. Um And uh you know, there is a certain level of like, you know, where is that sweet spot around empowering developers and application teams with a cloudlike model where they can, you know, I, I like to call call cloud, like, you know, uh not talking to a sales guy as a service, right? Like the key part of Cloud is that I can get my job done without having to file a ticket or talk to anybody. So the, the the I think the Holy Grail here is like, how can we have that experience for app teams so they can run hard? But how can we do it in the context and the constraints that are often very unique to each enterprise? Right? And so you, you end up with, you know, I cut my teeth at, at Microsoft and, you know, back in the day where he's like, why does word have all these features that like I don't use? And the answer is that, you know, they did studies and like the average person uses maybe 20% of the features of word. Uh everybody uses a certain 10% and then everybody else uses a different 10%. And I think this is one of the things that makes it difficult, you know, in complex scenarios to end up with any sort of one size fits all solution for, for deploying and managing infrastructure. Um So those are some of the things that I think drive people to want to create their own experiences. Uh And uh yeah, but it's uh it's not easy and I, I agree with Jason that you gotta go in eyes open and know what you're getting yourself into. Yeah, the complexity is, you know, I don't know if we're entering a, a period of correction, but the complexity is, is continuing to increase at the same time, we're getting more abstraction. So, so there's like this, this, this contradiction that is happening in, in the industry right now where, you know, every time you turn around, there's a new package out there that is doing something specialized, but it, it is abstracting things in, in, in many ways, right? No, nobody is a true computer scientist anymore. Everybody's, you know, operating at a, at a much higher level than, than they were before. So, I mean, I don't know, for me, it is, it is exciting to continue to see the simplification of software engineering that we're building stuff much faster with, with an increasing level of complexity. Um You know, there are lots of great advances and things that you can spin up today within, you know, a few minutes. It's mind boggling, you know, in terms of what, what it used to take to actually deliver value in the past. So, so, so I'm wondering if, if maybe what, what, what is apt to happen is, is more of a meta architecture where there are these big types of building blocks that, that we, we all end up grabbing from and there's, there's some variety there to match our um our specific application but, but I agree that there's, you know, that the increasing complexity overall is right? For some, some, some, some methodology or some, some way of thinking that would actually simplify it a little bit or make it more tangible. All right. Um So it was the next question kind of um we mentioned a few times, I think uh both Jason and Joe mentioned about sort of multi cloud uh you know, earlier in the conversation and we love to get folks thoughts on sort of what they see the future of multi cloud uh looking like. You know, will we see 30 increased levels of consistency across the cloud providers? Uh Will it be kubernetes, that is the level of consistency. Uh You know, do we think specific industries will see more uh you know, uh penetration around multi cloud architectures? Uh where do you see multi cloud going over the next few years? Well, as a cloud vendor, um I like to believe that multi cloud is gonna continue. Um You know, I, you know what I see with a, with a lot of our customers, they use, you know, multiple clouds as, as a way to manage availability as a way to, to deal with pricing as, as a way to deal with um pops around the world? I mean, there's a number of different ways that people use multi cloud technology to actually uh the approach to, to, to architect the application. So, um you know, certainly Kubernetes has been super helpful in, in, in, in, in, in facilitating um that kind of approach to deploying an application. For sure. Um you know, whether there's consolidation in the future, who knows? Um, you know, but I think variety is good variety. Um you know, increases, uh innovation increases competition and frankly, it just makes things more interesting. II I, I'd like to add on there and I, I just, I think um I don't see a real compelling reason that um cloud vendors would choose to standardize their, their interfaces or their service offerings across across the clouds, at least today in today's landscape. And so for the foreseeable future, I think they'll continue to be drift in the different types of service offerings and the implementation of those service offerings over time. Um I do think that um that the abstractions that are coming along and it in terms of how developers interact with the cloud services and resources underneath are going to continue to put like the actual location of your, of your workload further and further away from sort of the tip of the sphere with developers. And, and what I mean by that is that, you know, the the most advanced organizations that focus on things like zero trusts are not actually going to care where a developer chooses to put a function or workload, right? Because they'll have a level of security consistency and, and access controls across the various different environments. And so therefore, like the business is gonna care less ultimately about this physical location that things operate in and they're gonna care more about, you know, being able to leverage across different environments. And that means both things that they place um investments that enterprise makes in their own cloud architecture and also the investments that they may make in public hub providers as well. So I think that there's a, I think we're a ways away from seeing a material paradigm shift because today most enterprises view it as look, I'm gonna be an A W customer and I'm gonna get a virtual private uh VPC in that environment and I'm gonna go and put my stuff in there and I think in the future um with the right work, you know, on the security side, with the right work on the sort of the operational side, they're gonna have less opinion about where things that operate and more opinion about that, like the efficacy and the efficiency of what they get at the other side of the transaction. And I would say my, my, my thought here is there's a, there's a way in which you, I maybe think things should go and the way they're likely to go. And also what you mean by multi cloud too. I mean, we, we, we could talk about the big three and how they provide compute or we can talk about what's going on with some of the CD N networks and what they're doing with computed edge and some of the transition there. Um, or we can, you know, there's a theoretical thought exercise where all the compute, you know, that the big three computer look more, like meet up internet providers in the future. And the innovation is happening on the other side of the war, on the other side of the line. I don't know what's going to happen. II, I, I'm a, I'm an optimist and a um and a builder. So I think it should go a certain way because you want to give developers and organizations a certain thing. But I also don't think it's going to move as fast as I would hope it does as well. And I think we'll look at the industry will actually look a lot more like it does today in five years just with better tooling and, and operations of Jason. When I, when I said abstractions, I was looking at you and thinking actions. So I think um you know, if we rewind the clock five or six years, everybody thought that there was gonna be one big cloud and everybody is gonna run and there'd be like one data center per content and we were gonna be done. Um And clearly that's not where we're at. I think um you know what I see is that the the infrastructure footprint for enterprises is just getting more and more complex. Um The you know, whether you're talking about data sovereignty or sort of geopolitical issues, that's a force that's causing people to actually go wide um for specialized workloads, whether you're doing machine learning or um you know, I don't know, graphics rendering or what have you. There are certain cases where, you know, it does make sense to maybe manage your own data center. Um And then I think there's the whole thing around edges and all its various different types of things. I love the idea of the CD N as being sort of a low latency cloud and we're seeing that start to evolve. Uh But, you know, you take a look at like, you know, Amazon is doing these stores with, you know, cameras everywhere. If you've been to one of these Amazon ghost stores, you look up and it's just like a layer of cameras. Um I don't think every retail establishment is gonna look like that, but it's gonna be somewhere on that spectrum and they're gonna need compute to be able to do that because you can't always get the back call that you want to your data center to be able to, to handle that. So whether you're talking Telcos uh C DNS Retail edge, um you know, shippers want to be able to have infrastructure at their distribution center so that they can actually download stuff to their trucks and stuff, right? Like it's like this world is just getting more and more complex. And I think that, you know, multi cloud as a term, I think stands in for just dealing with the full complexity of the entire it estate. Can I have one more thing to, to pile on to what Joe said there? Which is, I think security and compliance are really going to have an impact on this whole conversation too. The whole geopolitical thing is it, it, it's super complex. I mean, II I have a premise that the rise of chief compliance officers is going to become a thing because it is super difficult to navigate this landscape and changes all the time. Yeah. All right. Um In terms, you know, I think we just, we just talked about a few of the sort of technology shifts, especially around the edge and things like that. Um Curious, you know, kind of going down a layer um in terms of the hardware, obviously, the hardware that we have available is, is shaped significantly, you know what the cloud looks like today and how we're building out uh modern cloud technologies. Curious if folks uh have any thoughts on sort of any interesting shifts they're seeing in the hardware landscape that are gonna have an impact on kind of the platforms and, and technologies that we're using in the next few years. I think machine learning in devices is gonna be um uh a a big change. Um I think being able to shift some of the stuff that you could only do in data centers with big models to something that can be done on devices is gonna be uh is gonna be a big change. Um I think five G is gonna be a big change in terms of, you know, orders of magnitude more bandwidth and accessibility to, to connectivity. I don't think anybody knows exactly what that change is gonna look like. It's just gonna be different. I I'll get that too. Oh sorry. Uh Go ahead. I was gonna say the five G was the one I was gonna key in on and say, I think that's going to have an impact and I don't know if it will, but you're going to at some point have mobile, all the cars that we have run around, all the Teslas running around, all the other evs are gonna be, they're gonna be some mobile units. Who knows what's gonna happen there. The phones are just getting more powerful. Obviously, the machine learning is the big, the, the five G machine learning are the two big ones that we're going to see the rise of the TP US and the rise of what's gonna happen over there with five G. So um other than that, I'm not a hard guy. I, I think what we're seeing though is like there's an interesting inversion that's happened because if you think back and I'll age myself here. But if I think back 15 or 20 years in this industry, what you had was hardware defined what was happening on the software and services side of the world. And I actually think that we're, you know, the hyper scale web companies kind of pioneered the idea that hardware doesn't just come in one shape and size and you could specialize it into specific workloads. And like, you know, the work that Facebook and Google have done in their own data centers to like build hardware that was fit for the kinds of, of operations that they need. And I think what we're going to continue to see now is increasingly specialized hardware that's coupled to the software side of the house. As opposed to being hardware driving what's, you know, what's on the software side of the house. Like nobody speaks about Moore's Law anymore, right? Because nobody cares about what the compute capacity of an individual processor is because we don't think about the world in that way anymore. Um As software architects we think about there's, there's an unlimited amount of compute out there. All I need to do is figure out how to interface that with the software that I'm building for the workload that I'm building. So I think we'll see we'll continue to see hardware evolve um at the as, as being the trailing function of, of requirements that are coming out of the cloud world, out of the software world, out of the compute world. Um as opposed to the opposite. Yeah, I just want to add that the advances we're seeing with GPS and certainly on the networking side as well with regards to smart mix, I mean, those are technologies that are actually going to make a lot of difference and you know, the speed to which the GPU world is evolving where every year and a half, they have a whole new generation. I mean, things are advancing so fast that it, it has, it is bound to have huge impact on, on, on what we can do from an ML standpoint or data sciences and things of that nature. So, so it's those are going to enable a wave of innovation like we've never seen before. And with five G, you know, you, you know, you effectively gonna have a machine learning device, you know, next door, right? I mean, you know, your car is gonna have so much power in terms of what, what it can do. Um You know, it's really interesting how the innovation that we're seeing today is really accelerating. Um you know, it's, it's amazing, great and then kind of moving up the I think, you know, uh Corey talked about uh how software is really taking a even more driver seat role here in the cloud, the way that that's exposed to the cloud vendors and things. So I'm curious what folks are seeing in terms of, you know, cloud native and, and modern cloud technologies and projects uh that you think are kind of having a big impact today and that are going to have a big impact over the next few years in terms of the, you know, the ultimate experience that the cloud engineers have uh with these platforms, I'll, I'll get started here. Uh um I think we're gonna see an evolution of sort of application architectures on how people actually build applications that can take advantage of the extended capabilities that we see. Um you know, back in the day, it was all three tier sort of crud apps. It was like, you know, you got a database, you got a presentation layer, maybe you were using rails to, to get this stuff going, you know, and then we had this whole sort of evolution around big data. And I think now we're seeing kind of a merging of these things where we now have some standard patterns for how do you actually deal with fire hoses of data in a same way. Um And, and you know, being able to make this sort of, you know, these sort of reactive type of programming models um work and making that be easy and accessible where you don't have to have a, a computer science phd to build distributed systems. I think that's something that's really enabled and empowered with cloud. I think one of the fascinating things when I was at Google was that, you know, we would talk with research scientists in research labs and they didn't have nearly the resources or that we had, you know, just sort of, you know, between the couch cushions at Google. And so I think the accessibility of scaling infrastructure for everybody. I think we're still, you know, that was an early result of cloud when you know, early EC2 usage was the New York Times, scanning its back catalog and doing OCR, right. We're still, I think early in terms of understanding and building consumable accessible ways for building distributed systems, you know, on that, on that front, I mean, I think, you know, service mesh type architectures are actually being, you know, very helpful in in, in simplifying that uh that distributing system, that distributed system, um you know, paradigm, right? You know, you can deploy an application out there and have it all be managed for you and scale up and down and so on. So, you know, it seems to me that the the simplification is continuing that, that it is becoming easier and easier to do some of these things. Uh You know, I think, I think a lot of the, the set up today is a little too complex still for, for, for people that, that are not um you know, hard core developers, but I, I can foresee a time where it'll, it'll be super easy to just deploy an application and have it be distributed and worldwide and have C DNS involved and, and all of that is, is just a, you know a few clicks of a button for, for a developer to um them said, I think that there is a natural evolution that happens in software over periods of time. And we've all gone through various versions of this. But there's when a new technology comes out a new paradigm, a new shift and it kind of explodes and a whole bunch of things happen and complexity kind of rains everywhere and then it gets consolidated back down to a four set of principles and primitive. I think we're essentially in the explosion phase for a bunch of different things and it'll get consolidated back down here soon on a couple of different concepts. Good example of this is I I cannot program A Java anymore. Too much. Our tissue from J two Ee and Java server faces and all that sort of stuff, the complexity from the early two thousands that exploded. And then when I found rails and ruby and just like fell in love with it because it brought some simplicity back. Well, we're having very, very initiating explosions happening in frameworks and things of that nature. But also services, services have now gotten easy to write services. But the complexity of managing services and if you look at it is there's an interesting uh thing that's happening at the moment which are a lot of the 2008 9 10 Unicorn Decor startup companies. And Google is another an example I think plays in here is um they wrote internal systems or services or things to manage the complexity of their business because it didn't exist. And a lot of those people are actually spinning out and making new companies or products. And this is largely what's happening with the cloud made foundation landscape and they're bringing some of that simplicity to everyone else. Well, we're still kind of in, I think in an explosion of complexity phase before the, the, the back to simplicity um reins in. Yeah, I agree with that, Jason, I, but you know, like it's starting to come back together like the Big Bang has kind of happened and the expansion happened and it's, it, it's, you could definitely see it starting to come back together. I think, you know, when I look at we were talking about serverless earlier and for all of its good and bad and, and everything else, the fact that you could take a, an engineer of virtually any experience level and say build me a massively scalable um data ingress system out of serverless and uh and a cloud database um capability is, is so democratizing to the companies that aren't the hyper scale web companies of the world that don't have an unlimited amount of resources and don't have an unlimited amount of money to throw at those problems. Right? And so, and, and what I think is gonna happen particularly with CNCF is uh is the goodness that has come to building those kinds of interfaces, those kinds of interactions in the public cloud or is gonna become available to enterprises to run in their environments as well as, as, as Jason describes it, the explosion starts to come back together and reform into, into more operationalize um technology. Definitely. So uh you know, just to wrap up um would love to give everyone a chance just to uh to kind of give any parting thoughts they have, you know, as you think about uh cloud engineering and the future of kind of what people are gonna do with architectures and platforms. Uh What, what are, what are your last parting thoughts for uh folks in this space? I'll start um at chef, we, we have a sort of a hypothesis that um one of the things that's gonna happen in cloud engineering in general and in infrastructure management and in software development is um that most companies are gonna start to go through again this period of consolidation. But ultimately, what it means is to reduce the number of patterns that they have for operationalize the various different things that they have to a smaller number of patterns. And, and if you look at the way that um you know, the big technology players operate at scale and velocity like the Amazons and the, and the Googles and the Facebooks and the Netflix is of the world. They have hundreds of thousands of software developers working on tens of thousands of projects simultaneously, but they only have a small number of ways that those projects actually get to operational state, right, like the, the funnel gets um narrow very quickly and there's a small number of patterns that they operationalize that. And so our advice to enterprise customers that are looking to try and get that kind of efficiency and effectiveness out of their it organizations is that you have to try and reduce the number of patterns that you're going to support in the long term. Um And, and we see that happening now, but I couldn't give that advice enough times to enough cio s out there, which is if what you want is web scale efficiency and um and output, what you have to do is reduce the number of patterns that you're supporting at any given time, right? Um So that's my, that's my parting piece of advice and so Corey touched on very large um in uh enterprises and customers. I'll go to the other side. Um I think for, for people that are coming out of school, uh future developers, future entrepreneurs, um There's gonna be discontinued, simplicity and, and simplification and abstraction and of the development environments and tools and standing up um applications of massive complexity uh will be something that people will be able to do at the drop of a hat. And uh you know, we, we'll, we'll see people have an idea and, and, and get it spun up super quickly um in, in, in ways that it would have taken years and in past uh in, in the past years for somebody to develop. So, you know, for me, I'm, I'm certainly very excited to see all these developments in computer science because, because it is actually allowing a lot of people to have access to technologies for standing up and creating businesses and developing new, new, new, new innovations and so on. I I went to a conference in Africa in Ghana back in December before, before the world went on lockdown. And uh there was just this huge energy that there was 3000 people at this conference and a lot of them were still at school and, and building enterprises and, and they were all super excited about the Kubernetes. I can only imagine where at least something like this would, would be in five years or 10 years from now. So, so that simplification, that abstraction that innovation in the tools is, is really gonna provide access to a lot of people and, and we'll, we'll see a lot of innovation over the over the coming over the coming years. For sure. I think it would only be fair that we let Joe have the last word on this topic. So I will do next. Um But I think that um if I can offer any parting advice for folks is um it's almost inevitable that you get to complexity in what you're building and where you get to, but don't, don't do it too soon. Don't do it too early, graduate into it. And I think that with what we see out there, it's, it's a great time. One to be in infrastructure, tech and new building, infrastructure tech. I think it's a lot of fun and two, it's kind of having its own renaissance in terms of everywhere is being innovated. If you're a large enterprise, I would say also don't buy all the hype. You hear, ask your developers internally and ask other developers about what's happening actually in the market. Um because there is a lot of stuff that will be said in the next 5 to 10 years about things that you likely don't need and then developers don't get saddened or frustrated or upset about things that are happening. I other parts of the stack, I can't navigate the javascript frameworks anymore. Um It used to be Ice Vanilla Javascript all the time. It's just not my thing anymore. And it's, it's, it's, it's had its own Cambrian explosion and I can't follow it. I'm not that upset by it. I just know there's a lot of smart people caring after it and that's what I really care about. So I, you know, there's two things that I wanna, I wanna leave with. Um The first is, you know, uh I'm fundamentally, I think an optimist. Uh it's hard to be during this time, but I think I'm fundamentally an optimist. And I think there's a bit of a nihilistic view that we're just moving complexity around and that, hey, if we, if we do this thing, we're like, we're making this more complex, but we're making this thing easy and it ends up being a zero sum game. But I keep reminding myself, you know, that old song, like we, we taught sand to think, right? Like, like there is so much complexity in our stack that we're, we're not even cognizant of and we've done amazing things as an industry and there's no reason to think that that won't continue and we won't find ways to, you know, innovate and find ways to sort of, you know, just fundamentally make things simpler and it's not a zero sum game around, moving complexity around. And then the last thing is I think it's, it's, it's gotta be about community. I think we got to work to build ecosystems that again, create positive sum environments for everybody such that, you know, as an industry, we're bigger than any single vendor, we're bigger than any one company. Um You know, the the work that I'm trying to do, you know, working with, with a lot of folks at VM Ware around Zoo is, you know, you look at this complex, confusing uh I call that CNCF landscape diagram, the beautiful chaos, right? That's a sign of innovation. We want to partner with our customers so that we can, you know, give them an, an on ramp into this environment so that they can benefit it from it but not cut them off from it. Um And I really wanna to see, you know, everybody embrace, like, how can we work together to build something that's bigger than any single, single one of us could very, very well said and, and couldn't agree more. Uh So thank you very much to all of uh the panelists here. I think it's been a great conversation and lots of really good insights from, from all of you. Uh And thanks again. Uh And thanks everyone for joining us today. Bye. Thank you.
---
