---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Google Cloud | Workshop"
title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Google Cloud | Worksho..."
meta_desc: |
    Learn how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud and run containerized applications on the cluster. The workshop will briefly introduce Pul...
url_slug: getting-started-kubernetes-google-cloud-workshop
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Google Cloud | Workshop"
  description: |
    Learn how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud and run containerized applications on the cluster. The workshop will briefly introduce Pulumi, an infrastructure-as-code platform where you can use familiar programming languages to provision modern cloud infrastructure.  We will guide you through the process with diagrams and a series of labs to help accelerate your cloud projects. You'll learn about the following: ▪️ Kubernetes basics ▪️ How to provision a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster ▪️ Deploying workloads to your cluster  
  sortable_date: 2023-05-24T14:00:17Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/QFegMu87K0M
transcript: |
    To welcome everybody. My name is Josh. Uh I am a solutions architect here at Pulumi and with me is Tim Hyatt. Tim. If you would like to introduce yourself, I have one. My name is Tim Hyatt and I am part of Google Cloud's professional services team. I am a technical solutions consultant. I spent a lot of time with customers and I'm looking forward to presenting with Josh. Awesome. And uh we like to walk you by the way to getting started with on Google Cloud with Pulumi. All right. So before we begin a little bit of housekeeping, uh comment in the chat, uh It is easiest uh if you use the Q and A tab to ask your questions, that'll help us keep track of them. And just in case they scroll out of view, we don't want to miss anything. Um Definitely encourage everyone here who's interested uh in learning about Pulumi to join the Pulumi community Slack. Uh It's one of the best resources that you that um that that exists for, for helping the learn Pulumi. Uh You are, there are plenty of folks in the Google Chat cloud channel uh including uh Tim uh I am also in there uh as well as a, a good number of Pulumi staff members. Uh in addition to the staff members uh of both Google and Pulumi, there are we have a very, very engaged community and you can ask uh pretty much any question uh from like very, very basic usage to like advance things and uh you'll get really good answers from the community. Uh There a code for everything that we are presenting today. Uh There's a link for that in the handouts tab. Uh Something went weird with us on github. Uh And so my code is still stuck in APR for the moment. But if you watch that pr uh just subscribe to the PR and it'll let you know when it's merged, but you will definitely be able to see the code there because it's a, it's a public repo. Um So again, go over to that handout link uh and the code will be there and it will eventually be merged. Just, just watch the pr and you'll be notified when it's merged. Uh Feedback is always welcome. Let us know what works, what doesn't work, what type of content you like to see in the future. Uh And um you know, again, please use that Q and A tab uh to let us know if you have any questions. 01 more thing, uh You will get a recording of this presentation. Uh You'll get an email, uh, with a link to this presentation on youtube. So, if you want to rewatch and follow along at your own speed, uh, that will be available to you within a day or two. Some of the prerequisites for the stuff that we'll be doing today. Uh You'll need a Google cloud account. Uh, you'll need to install the Plumy Cli, uh, you'll need to sign up for a Plumy account. It is Plumy is um open source and uh we'll be using the Plumy Cloud back end, which is the easiest way to learn. Pulumi. Uh The plume cloud back end will be storing your se uh will be doing your secrets encryption to decryption and storing your state file. Um The Pulumi uh Plumy cloud back end is free for individual use forever. Uh So if you're learning Pulumi, this is definitely the easiest way to do it. There are some additional options uh when you're adopting it like an organizational level uh that um so you can use uh Google um uh Google buckets object storage to store your state file and Google Secrets Manager, I believe uh to do your secrets encryption. Um And we'll, we can get into that a little bit uh later. If folks are interested for the code that we are writing, uh you will need to use. Uh So I'm using node 19 and typescript four, that may not be the minimum requirement, but I know that it definitely works So if you're somewhere around those versions, everything should work fine for you and if not just update your node version. OK? And uh I'm gonna hand off to Tim uh to talk a little bit about Google Cloud. Cheers. Thanks very much. Um Josh and hello, everyone. Uh greetings again from myself. Um This show is mostly going to be run by Josh, Josh this up and gonna look at some awesome demos uh on Google Cloud. But um I do wanna take a moment to tell you just a little bit about Google Cloud itself. Um First of all, keep your curses in the chat. Um Maybe you can just answer a few questions so I can see a bit of two way here. Is anyone using Pulumi at the moment on Google Cloud? Like just a simple Y or a yes or an N for a no anything you can spam the chat in this moment that that would be great just as I talk. So I get indication. Um The reason I ask is while we're specifically gonna be using Google Cloud, we're gonna be talking a bit about um and containers which is really gonna lead me into the start of the presentation. Awesome. Couple of yeses, couple of nos awesome. This is great. Thank you very much. Um OK, so let me tell you a little bit for those of you who haven't spent any time using Google Cloud or understanding Google's kind of network infrastructure, keep it super high level and not super boring. But um for those of you who understand cloud infrastructure and cloud regions, Google itself operates cloud regions in 37 locations. This is continuously growing. We've got more uh regions opening up later in the year. Um Some that have been announced, some that will be announced. Um But what's really interesting is we have these regions, we have zones which is when you have a data center or a region in Paris, for example, but you actually have multiple data centers in Paris. So you enable yourself for um disaster recovery or outages or fail over um within a region. Um But most importantly, we operate in 200 countries. And while I'm talking about this from like a Google cloud point of view, I think it's interesting to say specifically that Google actually operates the largest or one of the largest private networks in the world. Why is this important in regards to what we're talking about today is because we're gonna be focusing on Kubernetes. Therefore, we're gonna be focusing on containers. And the reason I want to talk about the network infrastructure of Google and Google cloud first is because everything at Google runs in containers on average within Google as an organization within alphabet, we launch several billion containers every week. Um We treat our infrastructure and most of our applications and content as immutable containers. They run, they live for a short period of time they fail or die, we kill them deliberately. We treat everything as a container and we try and run as much of our core applications um in containers as possible. What does this mean for an end user for Google's products? Well, to me, that's really interesting because when you use our products, um you may not necessarily think of containers. Let's start with what it looks like for Google. So Google Maps drive gmail meets youtube photos, the app store that your Android phone uh in inter interacts with all of these objects. All of these things that are running on Google's production network that I was talking about before in those regions is actually um being running containers and being run at scale. So our core network serves all of our billion um scale applications in containers globally every day. 24 by seven. What do we mean by billion scale applications? Well at scale, billion scale that is billion user. So the applications that use have billions of users um every day. What does Google cloud mean comparatively to the Google network or Google cloud is our public offering that allows um our customers that could be you, it could be other people that you know, um sometimes in my personal life, it's even me um to use that same core network that we run Youtube Gmail, all of those things in um to host your own applications in the same platforms that we use. And in Google cloud, we basically operate, operate three or provide three primary um methods for running containers at scale. That's Gke Google Kubernetes engine um and Gke Autopilot, which is a very cool um uh addition to uh Google Knas engine that actually uh obstructs away all of the management of the infrastructure and leaves you with almost a completely serverless um operating environment for um KNAS engine. And then we also operate cloud run, which is specifically designed um to run single containers um at scale. Um OK. I'm just looking at the chat as we go along. Are we all OK. With the video again, a container died. Um It's actually a very funny joke. Well well played. Yeah, Tim, you're unstuck now. Cool. Awesome. Um So sweet. So there are three primary offerings inside Google cloud. They a Google Cloud as a head runs on our um billion scale application core network um which has got this awesome global reach. And the reason that we offer um this content in this way is because well Google has more than a decade of experience running containers at scale. So this is a little timeline for you. It's very heavily abstracted away but from the format um formation of the modern concept of a container. And I do say the modern concept of a container uh was open source by Google back in 2006. And when is a project, an open source project was unveiled Google then quickly released um Gke several years after that. And now we have GKE autopilot and cloud run. So we've been doing this for a long time and we're doing our best to um as rapidly put it into the hands of our customers, people like you who really want to take advantage of um containerization and ultimately serverless running of those containers. So scalable applications um like the ones that you are building, like the ones that we are providing on the open market, um gmail, um you know, meets et cetera, they require scalable infrastructure. We have this huge network at Google that is global, but it's not necessarily just easy to manually set up all of the infrastructure and deployment one step at a time. And so we need scalable infrastructure, we need infrastructure as code. Um And specifically today, we're here to talk about infrastructure as code with Pulumi. Um It's one of several offerings on the market, but it is a fantastic offering. Hence why I'm here and, and wanting to talk to you guys about how it works with Google cloud. Um So just like a a couple of brief notes on like why infrastructure is code and why Pulumi and infrastructure is code. Um For those of you who don't know, is designed specifically to make the deployment of your core infrastructure in the cloud simpler and more efficient, you can write out the actual implementation of your V MS your your, your network, your um you know, permissions for users and access your service accounts all in code, execute it and have that actually served up in your cloud environment in Google cloud. Um It embraces the best practices for deployment of immutable infrastructure ie can only be changed by modification to the code and then ultimately a deployment by a secure pipeline. It also means that you get the audit ability, which is super important if you are operating in a highly regulated environment. I've been living in Germany for several years. I've been really learning a lot more about um data regulation but also independent local uh regulation that is different from country to country and being able to automate those policies and those security components that are compliant with your local legislation, but also your um organization's own policies around data protection and customer protection is really quite um a simplified process when you use infrastructure as code because it's really easy to audit what's happening. You can check in all of your code into source control like git hardware, um your own uh on premise source code repository system, and then you're able to track every change that's made, not only to your application code but also to your, your network, your infrastructure, your repositories, your permissions. Um And this is of great value, especially in a regulated environment. Plus you get the security of being able to deploy all of that infrastructure through pipelines that only have specific permissions. And this means that individual users won't actually have the grants to create a cluster here. They have to write the code, they have to run through an approval process, pull requests uh +456 I depending on your organization. And then finally, it will be deployed um automatically. And this is where like Pulumi really comes into play because Pulumi as an infrastructure as copro provider, like it's enterprise ready has a whole bunch of functionality out of the box that helps with policies and automation and um team centric kind of development of your infrastructure and your application. Um and it takes on a lot of the the real world uh best practices of Google clouds like professional services teams like myself who are 100% adamant that the safest way to do kind of deployments of your development test and production environments is to do it with something as controlled and audited as infrastructures code. What else is cool about it? Infrastructures code allows you to get documentation for free. Your code becomes the documentation, you can read your code, you can understand um what it is, you want to uh get out of your infrastructure and what you write in that code is what you get um additionally to that it's repeatable and recoverable. One of the coolest things I've ever seen or I see on a regular basis actually is working with some of our really large scale customers who have developed their entire environment in, in code like with Infra infrastructure code and they have their dr in one region on our global network, let's say it's in, in Belgium and they have their main operating environment in Frankfurt or even in um Stockholm. Um And they're able to fail over from one region to another super quickly because the code is the same, but the deployment region is the only difference. And so it's repeatable, it's scalable in that manner. You can start as a small organization who needs to move to multiple regions. And it's as simple as saying, I want to take the current definition like my code, my infrastructures code and I want to deploy it to a new region and with a little bit of configuration for the networking in between like our global network and our resources in our data center are able to be provisioned just by a redeployment of that code. I think that's like a really like fantastic use case for infrastructures code as opposed to this old school way of like manually writing every command and storing them in a notebook and hoping that you don't need them again, like um the world has changed and infrastructure code is like pivot to almost every um uh almost every organization who um automates their deployments to the cloud today. So I've touched a little bit about uh infrastructure code and why uh infrastructures code. And we're gonna show you why Pulumi is like super powerful for utilizing this. And so I'm gonna pass it back to Josh now. Um who's gonna tell us a little bit about ploy? Thank you so much and that was great. Uh So about Pulumi. Um So the first thing uh is that like, you definitely want to create a plumy account. It is totally free. Uh It is free for individual use forever. Again, creating, using the Pulumi uh Cloud as your back end uh is going to make learning Pulumi as easy as possible. Once you think you might be ready to adopt Pulumi at an organizational level, that's the point where you might want to consider signing up for a free trial. Uh It's 14 days free, you uh there's no credit card required and uh it has like all of our most advanced uh features. So you get the full suite of um of our feature set. Uh that includes like organization wide policies code, which is very helpful for the use cases that Tim described where you're dealing with. Uh you know, a lot of uh where you have regulatory compliance. Uh It also has like all of our uh organization, like user management features such as SSO and Scim. So, uh again, uh sign up for Pulumi account. Now, if you haven't done that, use it to learn Pulumi and then when you are ready to consider adopting it at an organizational level, you might want to sign up for a free trial. Ok. So what is Plumy? Well, Plumy is universal infrastructure as code. And so what do we mean by that? Um, so first off Pulumi supports a wide wide range of, uh, of different clouds including, of course Google cloud, uh the other major public clouds, but we also support a huge uh list of other like smaller cloud and SAS providers. So some examples uh of other providers, we have github Git Lab. Uh We support uh data dog new relic. Uh You name it, we probably have a provider for it and you can see the complete list of our providers uh over at the Pulumi registry. And I will, um I'll try to get a link to that in the handouts shortly. Uh In addition to being able to be used with multiple clouds, you can also write Pulumi code in a range of languages. Uh We support, uh you'll see the full list of languages uh very shortly. So the, the, the unique aspects of Pulumi are essentially that you can use it with multiple clouds but also use real programming languages. Uh a little bit about Pulumi uh like the program model uh at the outermost level, you have a Pulumi project. Uh You initialize a Pulumi project with the Pulumi New command and I'll be demonstrating that very shortly. So we have our project within our project. We have our program and today we'll be using typescript. So your Pulumi program is in your index dot TS. Within your program, we create resources. So some of the resources we'll be creating today include a uh a network, a subnet and then we'll be deploying a GK cluster into that subnet and uh within your resources, resources have inputs and outputs. So for example, uh we are going to create a network, the network ID. Uh So the network uh it might take uh the Cider block, for example, as an input, the uh and so the uh Cider block, excuse me, the uh network will have an ID output, we will use that ID output as an input to the Subnet. And again, I will demonstrate this uh in detail shortly when we get into the, the demo portion. And so when you use Pulumi, you have this, this pattern of like creating resources and the output of one resource becomes the input of another resource. And what's going on behind the scenes is that Pulumi is keeping track of the dependencies between these resources. And so that's what enables Pulumi to be declarative. And so, for example, uh so what do I mean when I say declarative, it means that you only have to describe your desired state of the infrastructure that you want. And Pulumi will figure out the steps that are necessary uh to make it the way that you want it. So if we create a uh if we create a GKE cluster and we um declare that we have three worker nodes and then we tell Pulumi to update our infrastructure to make it. So we will have a cluster with three nodes. If we change that to be say five nodes, we don't have to explicitly say add two nodes, we just declare that we want five nodes. And Plumy will figure out oh I need to add two more notes to the cluster. So in that way, Pulumi is declarative. So in addition to our program, we also have stacks and stacks are essentially instances of our Pulumi program with different configuration values. So uh a very common scenario is we might have a DEV stack, a Q A stack and a prod stack. And we might set different configuration values uh in those stacks. So we might say we want three nodes in A in our DEV or we maybe we want a less powerful uh worker node types in our DEV environment. And uh we can use the same program with different configuration values to uh deploy, say a more powerful uh cluster in our prod environment that we might have more nodes or more powerful nodes. So in that way, you can use Pulumi stacks to stamp out identical copies of the same infrastructure uh using the same Pulumi program. I see that we have a question on the Q and A. Uh I will get to that question a little bit later. So a little bit about Plume's physical model. Uh we uh so in the bottom left of this slide, you will see that we have our Pulumi program. Uh Pulumi supports a range of languages. Uh We have Python, uh we support node which is both typescript and javascript. Uh You can write Pulumi and go we support dot net, which includes both C# and F sharp and even visual basic dot net if uh if anyone out there is still using that. And uh we also have java support, which is in preview. And we also have an option uh to use YAML. Uh The YAML option is used mainly for very large organizations uh where you might have uh some folks that are more comfortable using real programming languages. But other folks who maybe come from a more traditional ops background and still wanna use YAML uh to, to create infrastructure, your Pulumi program is executed by the Pulumi engine. That's the cli the uh and what the engine does is it looks at your program and it looks at your Pulumi state file and your Pulumi state file holds the state of whatever uh your your infrastructure is in the cloud provider. So uh in the example that I gave before, if your plume program says five nodes and the Pulumi state file says three nodes, the Pulumi engine will figure out the difference between those two and know that it has to add two nodes and the way that uh Pulumi creates and manages resources in the cloud is is through Pulumi providers. So in this diagram, on the bottom, right, we have uh the Google cloud provider, which we will be using today and the Kriti provider, which we will also be using today. And those providers are what make the actual API calls uh to either to like create update or delete resources in the uh in the given cloud. So, uh for example, the Google cloud provider will be making the uh API calls to uh to the Google cloud API S. And the Kubernetes provider will be making uh the API calls to your Kubernetes uh Provi Cotis clusters control plane. Uh I'd also like to mention uh that we have a new feature called Pulumi A I. Uh We will be demonstrating that later today. Uh It is a wonderful, wonderful way to learn Pulumi. Uh It is powered by chat GP T uh for folks that aren't familiar chat GP T is part of a new generation of A I technologies called large language models. Uh And um the way as you'll see later on, uh you can enter a uh plain text prompt in Pulumi A I, you can select a language and it will generate a Pulumi program for you uh which you can then iterate on uh which again, we'll see uh shortly. Uh It is free for everybody to use. Uh And there is a link to Pulumi A I over in the handout tab. All right. So it is now demo time. So I'm going to share my screen and I'm going to shuffle some windows. Ok. And, uh, we should, everybody should be able to see my screen. Now. I will try and make that a little bit larger. Hopefully that is large enough for folks to see. Uh, can I get a little bit of feedback in the chat? Is this large enough for you to read? All right, that's good for Tim and hopefully it is good for the audience as well. OK. So uh the first thing I'm gonna do is initialize my Pulumi project. So I'm gonna do that using the Pulumi new command and you'll see that when I execute Pulumi new, I'm getting a list of templates. Uh These templates are all starting points uh for um for a Plumy program. So we're gonna use uh one of our newer templates today. We're gonna use Renette dash GCP dash typescript. And so we're gonna select this and we're gonna be prompted for our uh our project name, which the default here is fine. Our project description again, the default is fine and it's going to ask us for a stack name. And then we're gonna get some configuration options for uh the um for the uh GK cluster that it's going to generate one node per node, pull per zone, one node per zone and the node pole is fine. And then we're gonna uh ask us which project we wanted deploy to do so enter that. And in the region uh us central one is close enough to me. And then you'll see this output that should look very familiar to anyone who has done any node development. This is uh N PM node package manager, uh installing our dependencies. And now we have ourselves a uh a uh templated plumy uh project. So I'm gonna explore these files a little bit. OK. So first we have our node modules folder. Uh nothing exotic here. It's uh you know, very standard for folks that uh have done a node development of G ignore file which we can skip and then let's come down to this index dot TS. So this index dot TS which uh Pulumi is generated for us. Uh This um I'll go through this line by line shortly, but this is, this is the entry point to our program. This is where we're defining resources. Uh And this is what the Pulumi engine is going to run uh to create our infrastructure. We also have this Pulumi dot Yaml file. So this is our project level configuration. You'll remember that when we were running Pulumi new, it prompted us for some stuff like for example, the name of the project. And so that uh content is stored in Pulumi dot Yaml, we also have this file, Pulumi dot dev dot YAML. So you'll remember that when we ran Pulumi New it was asking us uh to uh to create a stack that stack we call DEV. And then it asks us some questions like uh how many nodes per zone and what project and what region and those configuration values go in our stack configuration file, which is called Pulumi dot stack name dot YAML, which in this case is DEV. Uh And so like you can see that if we had, for example, a Q A stack and a prod stack, we would be able to configure it differently. We might want to deploy it to a different region or a different project or have, have uh more nodes per zone. And so we can do that via the stack configuration uh values. So I'm going to take us into uh index dot TS and we're gonna go through this uh pretty much line by line uh to explain what's going on. OK. So first, uh we're going to import the Pulumi SDK that is at Pulumi dot slash Pulumi. What does that give us? Well, that gives us like basic non cloud provider specific uh functionality like for example, the ability to pull uh from our stack configuration file. And that is done using Pulumi dot config. So, uh so for example, we have in our plumy dot DEV dot ya O we have this GCP project defined and we are pulling that value from our config file uh and putting it in a local variable which we will be using uh later on in this program. So that is uh what the, and, and the Pulumi uh SDK brings in a lot of other things, but it's essentially, it's where you have all of your Pulumi specific um methods and classes and things like that. In addition to the Pulumi SDK, we are also bringing in uh the GCP uh provider. And so this gives us uh this gives us access to all of the um the Google cloud resources, like for example, this network that we are creating here. So those that covers both of our import statements. So in this block here, we're just grabbing uh values from our configuration file uh like for example, our GCP project or our node for zone. And then as we get down here to line 13, uh now is the point where we start creating resources. So what we're doing here is we're creating a Google cloud network that is in GCP dot compute dot network. The first parameter here is the name. Uh And so all Pulumi resources follow this pattern. We have the name is the first parameter uh some and then the resource options as the second uh excuse me, the uh resource inputs as the second option. Uh And so you'll see this pattern repeated over and over throughout this um throughout this, this, this program. So uh the first thing we do is we give our resource a name. Uh It's important to know that the name is definitely required and needs to be unique for the type uh of uh of resource. But internally Pulumi will also, when it actually creates the physical resource in uh Google cloud, it will uh add on a random string to the end. And so why does it do this well? Uh and by the way, this behavior is overridable. So if you want to give it an explicit name and have it be exactly the same every time you can do that. But uh we normally want auto naming because it will allow us to deploy the same stack into the same environment so that we don't have naming collisions. And that is a very useful feature. Uh So when we create our network, when they say auto create subnets, that's fine, um or we're not going to auto create subnets, next, we're going to create a subnet. And you'll notice here, like as I mentioned earlier. Um So we have this resource, this GCP compute network, we have inputs like auto create sub network, which you can see here is of type plume dot input of ball. And we are using the output id as an input uh to the network to which we are going to uh create in which we are going to create our sub net. So hopefully, that's, that's clear to everyone. Um So again, you see this pattern of one resources output becomes another resources input. And then again, behind the scenes, Pulumi is keeping track of all these dependencies. And so it knows what operations need to be done in what order after we create our network and our subnet, we create our GKE cluster. And so um we have, you know, some uh DNS cash added on as an add on. Uh We have a bunch of other configuration options that uh I probably could not explain in depth one by one because there's a number of them uh because we are of course dealing with and is not uh it's not a trivial tool by any, by any uh by any stretch. Uh And so we have like, you know, all of our um all of our uh cluster options and then we're gonna create a service account here on line 67. And we're going to create a nude pool for our cluster. Uh We are going to template out our clusters cube config using some of the outputs from the cluster. So you can see here that we're using the C A certificate output uh to go into the uh cube config and a few other properties of the cluster. So we make our cluster cubic and fake. And then finally, you see these blocks that are exports. And so what are these? Well, these are Pulumi stack outputs stack outputs um Are they serve two purposes? They, in either case, they are allowing you to access values in your Pulumi program uh from the outside world, excuse me, in the first use case. Uh And which is what we're going to be demonstrating later. Uh You will be able to pull these values from the command line using the Pulumi stack output command. And again, I'm going to demonstrate that very shortly. Uh You can also use stack outputs to reference those values from other Pulumi programs. So uh when you start using Pulumi at a little bit more scale, uh let's say that you have a network team uh who are responsible for defining all of your network components. And maybe you have a platform team who are responsible for managing uh your kubernetes clusters. You might use these network outputs. Uh You might reference these outputs via what's called a stack reference uh from a different pluming program that actually creates the clusters. However, today we will be doing everything in a single stack. OK. So that covers uh this line by line. Uh Are there any questions so far on the contents of the Pulumi program? And I will give it just a second none in the Q and A so far. Um But if they come through, I'm keeping an eye out for you. Um And nothing specific in the chat. Great. OK. So um the way that we uh the way that we create our infrastructure or update it is by running the Pulumi up command that's gonna run and the first thing that blew me up is going to do is it will give us a preview of what it intends to do because this is the first time that we are running this program, everything is going to be a create. But you can see here, there's the list of resources that we're going to create. Uh It will be creating our DEV stack or network, our subnet, our cluster, our service count and our node pull. So in addition to that, you can see here are the uh outputs of this stack that it intends to create. And uh we're gonna perform this update. We're gonna say yes. And so it's going to do its thing. Um It's gonna create the stack and then the network and uh Pulumi, by the way, does uh eagerly create the resource. So basically, it does as much in parallel as it can. So of uh in this Pulumi program, everything kind of depends on the network, right, the sub net and the cluster. So it can't create those things until after the network is created. But now you can see OK, the network is created. Now it's dependent resource, the subnet is being created and uh just like it's doing with this, create any changes you make in this program. Pulumi will figure out what to do in what order. And again, that is the declarative nature uh of Pulumi. So it's gonna do its thing. I am not going. So uh GK clusters take about uh about like some 5 to 10 minutes or so to provision. So I'm not gonna bore everybody uh with watching this timer uh tick away. What we're gonna do is we're gonna jump on over uh to another uh program that I have. Now, it is more or less identical uh to what we created in the um from the template. And I'm gonna clear this just in case. So, uh at this point, this is what your program will look like. Again, everything has been created and what we're gonna do now that we have uh our cluster created, we can uh we can do a few things. So first, we can uh run the Pulumi stack output which will give us a list of our outputs. So we have a Q configuring here and you'll notice that its value is marked as secret and this is one of Pulumi s coolest features. Uh Pulumi is very, very good with security. Uh Pulumi knows what values are secrets, but you can also specify uh additional secret values and Pulumi will never ever store your secrets in plain text on disk. Uh It will uh use a Pulumi Secrets provider. The default is the Pulumi Cloud, but you can also use uh any of the secrets um services, any of the encryption services in any of the major clouds. Uh So what happens is behind the scenes? Uh Pulumi says, oh, this is a secret. I'm gonna send this off to my secrets provider and ask it to encrypt it and then it will take the encrypted value and store that to disk. Now, in order to generate a cube config uh we are going to need to access that raw value. So I'm gonna run Pulumi stack, output cube config with the dash dash show dash secrets option. And we're gonna spit that out into cube config dot YML. So I'm not gonna show you the contents of cube config dot Yaml, but I'll run uh an LL command just so you can see. Yes, there is content in there. So there is a Q config in there and it does contain secrets. So what we're going to do now is we're going to export the cube config uh environment variable equal to cube config dot Yaml. And what this is gonna do uh except I typed it wrong. Here we go. OK. So what we're gonna be able to do now is we're gonna be able to run uh cube CTL commands. Excuse me. Cube Cuddle. I've been uh informed that that is the official pronunciation. Cube Cuddle commands uh against the cluster that we created in our plumbing program. So again, that is our GKE cluster uh which we have defined way up here. All right. So I'm going to actually make this full screen. I'm also gonna clear. OK. So now we can run commands against our cluster. So let's run cube CTL uh get pods dash has all dash name spaces. And so when we do this, you can see it. OK. Well, here are all the uh the pods running in. So we have nothing running outside the cube system name space, right? Because this is a freshly created cluster. But we can see all the pods that are doing all the magic uh behind the scenes that makes GKE uh clusters so much easier to administer. OK. Well, that's great. But uh wouldn't it be better if we were able to uh deploy uh Kriti resources using Pulumi itself? And that is exactly what we're about to do. So, uh the next thing that I need to do is install the Pulumi Brunetti uh provider. These uh this has already been run on this. Uh So this is already in my uh node modules. Oops I probably spelled it wrong. Yes, I did. OK. So it's a uh it's already been installed in this particular program, but this would install it if you're running this fresh. So this will give us access to the Kubernetes provider. OK. Now, let's go back up to our imports and you would need to add this line import star as Kates from at Plume Ktis. And the next thing we're gonna need to do is um so we're gonna need to initialize the Kubernetes provider. Normally you don't, you don't need to do this. So you're like, you might notice, hey, we didn't need to initialize the GCP provider. Why do we need to new up a uh a Kubernetes provider? Well, the reason for that is that we are creating the cluster in this Pulumi program. And so the cub config that we need to point the Cuber Netti provider, no uh does not exist if we wanted to. Uh you know, if we had different stacks, we could take maybe take that cube config and make it an output and pull it in uh from another stack. So, uh what we're gonna do is we're gonna provider E equals new Josh. There's a question in the chat. Um just from a previous point about secrets for is wondering if it's possible to store secrets in vault, for example, has called vault programmatically. Absolutely. Yes. So we uh the full range of secrets providers that we support uh are so we support uh the, the, the encryption services. It actually, by the way, does not store the uh secret in vault. It uh it uses vault encryption and decryption capabilities to encrypt and decrypt the actual secrets in uh the cipher text is stored in Pulumi. Now that said Pulumi also has a, a vault provider that will allow you to pull secrets from vault within your Pulumi program. If you want to, it will, you can also manage any uh of the various vault objects uh that you want using uh the vault provider. Ok. So we're gonna new up this Cubers provider. And, oh, yes. I I was remiss in uh not showing by the way, folks, because you are using regular programming languages and regular libraries within your programming languages. Uh You get the same intell sense and uh that you would get using uh any other library in your language. So you can see here, here's all of the options we have for creating uh a acute provider. One of which, by the way is kind of interesting. So if you set this render to YAML directory, uh you can use Pulumi simply to template out manifests if that's what you want to use it for. Uh We won't be demoing that today, but it is kind of a cool feature um that can be very useful. So we're gonna specify this cube config is equal to the cube config here. That's our cluster cube config. But now uh we're going to create some resources and we're gonna tell our resources to use this Kates provider that we just created. So I'm gonna copy and paste this part because writing uh these resources can, it would be very hunt and peck. Um So we're gonna deploy engine X. Uh we're going to make a Kates dot apps dot V one deployment and uh that maps to exactly what you would expect. This is, this is uh behind the scenes, this is a deployment uh object and you'll notice uh that this follows the very similar um a very similar um in fact, an identical object structure to what you would be doing in Yaml. Only now you don't have to worry about indentation. Uh I if anyone here has worked with for any amount of time, I'm sure that you have been bitten uh by YAML white space sensitivity, you'll also notice that again, you get uh all of the same uh all the same uh intelligent completion that you would expect. So these are all um you know, we had internally, we keep a schema of uh for each object and that is reflected in autocomplete or intell sense in your editor. Uh So you'll notice here that we are now using a third argument. So I, as I mentioned before, whenever you create a uh whenever you create a uh a uh a resource in Pulumi, uh there each resources, arguments follow the same pattern. First, you have the name which we're calling engine X dash deployment, then you have the options for the resource and the third set. Uh excuse me, the uh the configuration for the resource. And the third are the options for the resource. And here we're telling this thing to uh we're telling uh Pulumi to create this particular object with a specific provider. Uh Again, this is not uh you're not gonna need to set this all the time, but it's good to understand that there are a list of options here. Uh For example, if you are creating a database, you may want to set the um protect. So protect will, for example, prevent a resource from being deleted. Uh There's a whole list of different resource options. Uh They are well documented. Uh And if uh anyone wants to, I'll be happy to throw a link for that. When we get to the Q and A portion. Uh you may also want to, for example, use retain on delete, which will um rather so if you set uh if you set uh where are we here, protect, protect will cause an error. If you try to delete it, retain on delete will still execute the program, but it will leave the resource behind. Um And anyway, there are a range of options that you can set uh in the provider options most of the time you won't need them, but it's helpful to know that they are there. OK. So this is our deployment object. Next, I'm going to create a service just before you start that, Josh, there's another question in the chat and it's quite a good one because we're talking specifically about typescript um at the moment. But the question is, is index dot TS like main dot TF in the terraform world. Is it possible to create modules and modular flow? Um like in form? Yes and yes. Uh so, you know, depending on which language you're using. If you're using Python, it's underscore underscore main dot py underscore underscore which is quite a mouthful uh in C# it would be program dot CS. So that's what index TS is. It's the, it's the entry point to your program. Uh As far as modules go, there are a lot of different options uh in Pulumi. So uh if you want to use plain old classes and functions uh to, to modular your code, you are more than welcome to do that. And that is a perfectly valid pattern. In fact, I would recommend that you just start with just using functions. Uh If you need to, for example, repeat things. Uh by the way, because Pulumi uses real programming languages, you also have like all of the other uh normal programming language features at your disposal, you have four loops you have, if else all that stuff is there and it will work as expected. Uh So, coming back to module options, we also have uh this, this concept called a component resource. Uh An example, I don't think we're, we're not using any component resources here. But if you wanted to, you could make a component resource that might encapsulate, say a VPC and some subnets or excuse me, a network and some subnets. Um So you can, you can, you can encapsulate things that way. Um Tim if you could look up the docs for uh component resources uh and maybe throw that in the Q and A. Um And then we have like our most advanced uh way of encapsulating things which is um you can create actual multi-language components. Uh So that's, that's a very advanced feature. Most folks will not need to do that. Um But if you're in a very large organization and your Pulumi uh usage is very widespread and we do have some of those customers. Uh you can create uh Pulumi um you can create Pulumi multi-language components that include a schema and will be callable uh from any language. So that's like our, our, those are, that's the full range of options for uh for modular uh pluming code. And also um you can create uh packages uh that are in whatever your language of choice is. Uh For example, if we're, you know, we, we're using typescripts so we can make an M PM package that has all of your pre-approved um configurations for like say GKE clusters and you can distribute that just as a regular old M PM package, which is very, very powerful option. Yeah, I was, I was 100% gonna get on the back of that. So I'm I love go, I, I spent a lot of time in go and you can obviously do a lot of package and module work in go and it works really well because you're bound by the constructs of the native language, not just of plum as a programming process itself. In addition to that, I think one of the things that's really cool is that because it's like it is using the real native languages under the hood, you can actually compile like in the, in the construct of go, you can actually compile a binary and you can even like store those binaries in your um registry. So whether it's J frog artifact or something like um Google cloud artifact registry, you could store those as artifacts versioned and tagged. Um And you could effectively roll forward and roll back an architecture or redeploy a particular version of an architecture. As long as you're cautious of your state objects where you're, you're managing state outside of the binary itself. Awesome. OK. So um back to our program. So we are now at the point where we're creating our service uh you uh So we've created our service. And uh the last thing we're gonna need to do is we're gonna need to create a stack output uh That gives us the IP of our engine X installation. So again, the way that we do that is uh we do export cons because, because what we're going to do once we spin all this up is we are going to um we're going to verify that our uh engine X has been spun up by curling the IP. So again, the command that we run is plu me up to deploy our infrastructure. It will give us a preview if you ever want to skip the preview. Uh There is a dash Y option. Uh I would strongly encourage you not to use the dash Y option if you're working on production infrastructure, uh because it's very good to know what's going to happen before you uh agree to it. But uh what we have here is we, so we are going to create uh this provider because providers themselves are Pulumi resources. Uh We are going to create again our service and our deployment for engine X and then once that is done, uh we will get our load balancer address. So let's say yes, we want to perform this update and it's gonna do its thing. And uh again, this will be a great time. If any folks have any questions, please hop on over to the Q A tab and we can get those answered for you. All right. So our deployment is up there is one here. Uh Maybe you answered it already. Uh Can we also run the plume code without or with the programming language? Example, a Python web service to provision resources in the cloud and calls the Python code to create it. So that is an excellent question and the answer to that is also yes. So Pulumi has a feature called All right. So you can see that like when, when I'm running these Pulumi programs we're using, I'm, I'm using Pulumi up. So I'm running uh my Pulumi code through the Pulumi cli. In addition to that, we also have a feature called the Pulumi uh automation API which basically flips that dependency and allows you to call Pulumi uh through your code. So it basically essentially flips the dependency. So uh in this case, we have Pulumi calling our application code. But uh when you use the Pulumi automation api it flips that dependency and your, your code is just regular old Python code or um regular old Python code or regular old node code that is taking on Pulumi dependency and then you can perform Pulumi operations within your code. And so this is this is where you start to get into like some really fascinating possibilities. So you can hand off a cli tool written and go, let's say that lets your um development team spin up their own infrastructure, excuse me. And that's where we really get into uh what, what the kids are calling platform engineering uh where you're, you're, you know, you have the centralized team that is making uh these tools available to your uh development teams with like all the guard rails installed and it it can be a major, major improvement in productivity. So we can see here that our uh our plumbing program is finished running and we have our engine X load balancer address, which I am. Oh right. And so again, we can access uh these values by going plume stack output and typing is not the best today. Copy that. And so again, we can get this uh IP address. And what I'm gonna do now is I'm going to maximize this window and I'm going to run curl and I'm going to curl this address. I'm going to jump around a little bit at the HTP colon slash slash. So we run this lo and behold, we see the engine X default page. Uh and we have ourselves a working engine engine X service. So, uh this would be another good time to circle around for questions. Anyone have any questions on the stuff that we've presented so far, I'll give that a few seconds for people to consider. But if there are no questions at this time and tim keep me honest, if there are uh I like we're all, we're all clear, we're all clear at the moment. All right, very good. So what I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna show you all the, the real magic. This is Pulumi A I and I need to reload the page ploy A I. Uh This is totally free. Uh You can reach this at Pulumi dot com slash A I which is uh available on the handouts tab. And the way the Pulumi A I works is you can ask it a totally free form question. Um And you can get real, real vague with it. Uh Let's say, show me how to do something cool with Google Cloud run. And so it will start to reply. Um And as you'll see very shortly after this preamble, which uh I actually learned the preamble. Why does it do the preamble instead of just giving you the answer because the preamble actually helps it give a better answer. Um The way that these tools work is they are essentially incredibly sophisticated, autocomplete. And so giving this preamble kind of gets it in the uh in the right frame of mind, so to speak. And so look at this, we have Pulumi A I writing us a Plumy program. Uh And so the way that uh so this is, and this is really an awesome like, so you can select uh whatever language you want to use and it will generate that. Um Once it is done responding, you know, since we have about half an hour left, uh we might even, we might even do this live. I might, I might be feeling frisky Tim, we might be doing some, some live uh live code editing. And by the way, if any folks, um if any folks are uh or uh have questions, please ask because, uh you know, I, I do love fluy A I, but it does take a minute to uh to write out this question. So I would love to fill the time answering any questions that anyone might have and please like, don't be shy. Um You know, we wanna, we wanna give you as much useful information as we possibly can. OK. So we have our program here and I'm going to, I think it might need to finish the response before I get that copy. Yeah, here's our copy button. All right. So let's do it. Uh Give me one sec here. Make a new window. Make sure I let me a, I do it live. OK. I gonna fire visual studio code just as I did before. And uh I'm going to bring up a command prompt and we're gonna run plumy new typescript. So the Pulumi new typescript, by the way, will give us a, a totally blank, uh a totally blank um typescript program. We see a, I see a question in the chat. Uh Will we get a recording? Yes, you will, you will get an email within 1 to 2 days. Uh that will have the full video of this workshop and uh you can go through it at your own pace. So, yes. OK. So now we have our blank pretty much blank T uh ts let's install the plume key library. Yeah, actually, yeah. And then I'm just gonna paste in our output from, from uh Poum uh from ah Yes. OK. So, uh some interesting things here. Uh we, so it's not perfect. Um But what it will do is it will give you a uh a, a very usable starting point. So what you can say is like, hey, I don't think that uh let's see. Uh So the repository ID is missing. So what you can do is you can go back to here and you can say repository ID is, is required and missing from the artifact from the repository lo and behold. So if you can't read this, it says I understand that you need the repository ID to be included in the deployment. Here's the modified plume typescript program with repository ID, my node repo for the artifact registry repository. And so like this is, this is essentially how you're gonna want to use Pulumi A I in practice. Um I'm not gonna go through like the full uh spinning up of, of a program, but essentially you, yeah, it's kind of this uh this, this feedback cycle, you know, kind of uh wash rinse repeat where you can paste the contents of the program. Tell Pulumi A I, hey, this doesn't look right or I'm getting this feedback from my ID E and it will make the necessary corrections again. It's not perfect, but it is a really, really great way to get started. Uh Especially if you have like, you know, a, a use case that might not be covered by our examples. Uh because Pulumi has such a huge range of providers and I will just to give you a picture Pulumi dot com slash registry. Uh You can see here that we have all the major cloud providers. Um but we have like a huge, there's 100 and 31 different packages in the registry. Um Most of which by the way are for different cloud and uh A S services. So I'll do a quick scroll, you can see that there should be some familiar logos on there. Um So you can, there's a lot that you can do with a single tool with Pulumi. Um And then the cool thing is that like, you know, if you're and it is perfectly normal by the way to use multiple providers in a single plumy program, uh You Pulumi will orchestrate all of this infrastructure for you uh using a single tool. So Josh just wanted to tell you the pause. There, there is another question in the chat for you. Um It says, is there any hub uh for production ready Infra examples or best practice guides for production with Pulumi? I'm not sure if we're talking specifically about best practice with a particular cloud provider or a particular um uh you know, plu provider itself. Um But maybe just if you want to answer that. So as far as practices uh for Pulumi itself, I'm gonna grab this blog post, please. Pardon my scrolling if it is making you dizzy. Uh So we have a uh recommended practice series for um I'm gonna put this in the answer. So we have for, for Pulumi practices not specific to any cloud. Uh We have uh this blog series called um uh IC Recommended Practices uh that you can, you use, it's very, very helpful uh as far as the cloud goes. Um We are so we do have some higher level abstractions. Uh for um for another major public cloud uh that is very large and uh I will name by name. Uh We do not yet have that for Google cloud. Um But uh we do have a pretty decent uh set of examples uh for most of the popular resources. Um And there are like obviously a ton of resources uh in Google cloud, I'll make this a little larger. Um So this is the Pulumi registry. These are essentially the API docs. And uh you can see that if we go to cluster and select attach uh excuse me cluster, um We do have examples that will sort of point you in the right direction. Uh You can between like our examples uh any prescriptive guidance that the cloud provider itself gives and Pulumi A I, um you should be able to get uh pretty good uh pretty, pretty close to production ready um uh infrastructure. Yeah, I was just gonna add on that like from from the cloud point of view, like from Google clouds point of view, right? Like when you're using something like Pulumi as a tool to orchestrate your infrastructures code, we recommend regardless of what provider you use that you follow the best practices that the cloud provider lays out in their own documentation. So for us that is like how you handle your, the security of your secrets or how you set up your secure pipelines for deployment of both infrastructure and or applications your I AM permissions and everything. But what's amazing about Pulumi in a sense or any infrastructure as code provider is you can, you can modify your infrastructure as code. However you like actually deploying towards those best practices is something that you um can, can put in place whether it's through something like ploy policies, which is something we haven't really um talked about today, but definitely recommend you should look at or um other processes. But in addition to that, the cool thing with Bloomy is you're, you are talking about using real world programming languages and they should go through any form of true code review. And so if you have internal best practices for how you use go or typescript or um Python, then you should also ensure that your plumbing infrastructures code adheres to those so that you get the best out of your documentation, your, your um uh your, your DEV work flows, your devs workflows, everything to your organization as well. So while Google have its recommendations for how you do implementation of our cloud resources, they will marry up with the fact that Pulumi can actually execute on those. And then on top of that, you can, because it's a real world programming language, you can apply your industry or the industry standards, your organization's best practices. And um uh what do we call it um uh code like code practices effectively to, to those language specific implementations as well. Very good So we have about 20 minutes left. Uh If any folks uh have additional questions now, uh would be the time to ask because I have presented everything that I want to show you. Fine folks. Actually, no, I have not. I have one more thing I want to show. Uh let me show you the uh Pulumi Cloud. Uh and what that, what that brings. So Pulumi Cloud is the default back end. Again, it's doing your secrets management uh and your uh state file management, but it also has a wonderful U I so we can go to this dashboard. And so this is this, this really shines when you start to start to um use Pulumi like at least at a a team level and you start to have collaboration. Um It, we get some nice widgets on the dashboard, the number of members in our organization, our total stacks, our total resources. Uh You can see your resource count over time. Mine tends to go up and down because I am running workshops and deleting infrastructure. Sorry to cut you off. Josh screen is not sharing. Oh, my screen is not shared. It's showing beautiful things and I think that Yeah. OK. So uh my apologies for that. Um So this is the uh Plumy cloud dashboard. Uh You can see that we have member count, total stacks, total resources, you can favorite stacks, for example, um We can keep our resource count over time. Uh you know, a nice overview of our organization's infrastructure usage. In addition to that, uh we can also click into any of our stacks. This is the one that I was working with today. Uh on this page, we get an overview of our resources, for example. Uh And we also get these handy dandy links that you can open uh these resources in your cloud console. Uh Not every resource is supported, but like most of the most popular ones for the most popular clouds are. Uh if we go to this activity tab, uh this is super helpful. So this gives us a uh a list of all the changes that happened uh to our stack over time. So if we click into the details here, uh you'll notice here and I will make this larger that all of the output that we got on the command line is available in Pulumi cloud. Um It's super duper helpful. We also get some contextual information on uh what uh git repo we're using, what GIT branch and what revision. Uh So this activity tab is super helpful at showing us who changed what when uh which when you're dealing with uh when you're dealing with longer running uh infrastructure, it's, it's really, really helpful. We also have this new feature called uh resource search. Uh This came out just just I think a month ago or so. Uh So if we wanted to look for everything we're doing with Rene, let's go Ruber Service. Uh We can run that query and we will get everything that is relating to uh to that service. We could run GKE. That's a query. And then we'll see all of our. Uh So the reason that this is showing is because the name uh of the uh project is GK No, but um it, it does do regular natural language search. Uh And this is like a really nice new feature. Any questions on the stuff I'm showing so far. OK. So there is one more thing I do wanna demo uh which is super important uh the command to tear down your infrastructure, which is, and I will clear. Oops are in the wrong. So, OK. So this is our window where we demonstrated uh engine X. So I'm gonna clear and uh the command to destroy your infrastructure is Pulumi destroy and please, please, please remember to do this. So you don't leave infrastructure uh up that you don't want running and encourage unnecessary charges. So, again, just like with Pulumi update, uh we get uh we get a preview. It's gonna tell us what it's gonna do. It's going to delete every uh resource in the stack and also the stack itself. So uh we're gonna say yes and then Plumy is gonna go off and do its thing and delete all the stuff that we created. Uh This is gonna take a little while to run. Uh And so I'm not gonna bore everybody with the uh with, with Timer watching here, but um it will uh destroy uh all, all the research that you created. So if you're following along at home, uh that's very important uh to remember to do at the end. Uh I see one more thing in the Q and A tab. Uh Is there a way to play with Pulumi without using any cloud environments at all? Uh in your home server with dot Linux Docker Crinet. Um So we don't have a specific guide for that. Uh But you, we have a Docker provider which will not uh interact with it anything outside of your local file system if you tell it, for example, not to push the image. Um But you can also like, so, you know, we have a doer provider that would be suitable for that. Uh We also have and I can call this up. Uh We have in our ah registry, we have what is called, show you how you search, we have the command provider. And what the command provider does is it a executes an arbitrary shell command. Uh So that's another way that you could play with Pulumi um it's super useful. So if you go to the api docs, uh you can use the local uh command resource and that will uh it will execute uh commands. It's, it's actually uh a super useful if uh a particular resource maybe is only supported from the command line. Uh You can use the command provider to create or destroy uh the resource if you need to. Uh we also the um command provider also has the capability to execute remote commands uh over SSH, which can be useful if you need to do some provisioning steps uh on say a VM that you create. Uh So that should answer that question. Um Oh By the way, if you use the Kubernetes pro, the Kubernetes provider uh will work against any uh cube context. So if you give it a cube, if you uh if you're your shell's ambient cube context points to a local server. Uh Pulumi does not care it, it all it does is work against the Cober Netti API and it doesn't matter where that API is. So the Cotis provider is also an excellent way to try Pulumi uh without uh using any cloud resources. I think this also with the D A provider as well. Yes, that we have a do a provider. It is pretty. Uh We actually just released a version 4.0 that has some uh 4.2 apparently. Uh that has some really uh useful stuff particularly around the container resource. Uh This is like a massive improvement over version 3.0 um So you can explore that if you want to use uh Pulumi with uh without any cloud uh resources. We also on our website uh have Pulumi learn, I I believe, which is mostly this will help you learn uh plume um Pulumi concepts uh without uh getting into any specific cloud providers. So there's, there's a number of resources around that. I see another question. Is there any support for additional programming languages planned like Dart, Rust Cot and Swift? I, I'm not 100% sure but I be all right. So there are no plans to add additional languages. It is possible, but I am not certain and please follow up with me on the Pulumi Community Slack. Uh And I will be able to tell you for sure. I believe that Java support covers other GVM languages. It might actually, it might cover other JB M languages, but I'm really not sure. Um So if you follow up with me on this uh community Slack, I will be able to get you the details on that. OK. So it looks like unless there are any further questions and it looks like there are not at this time. So uh some resources to help you continue your journey. Uh If you would like to be uh we have all of our uh workshops at plumy dot com slash resources. If you would like to be notified of upcoming workshops, you can subscribe to our newsletter. Uh We have a great getting started uh section in our documents at plumy dot com slash doc slash gets started. We have uh an extensive list of examples uh you can access some of those both through the registry. So our registry has like a bunch of how to guides. Uh, excuse me. Yes, the registry does. Um, and I can show you that page for, uh Google Cloud if you just bear with for one second here. Ok. So I'm going to switch to my screen, which unfortunately is covered. Ok. So here is the uh Google Cloud uh home page on the plumbing registry. And you can see here that there are uh a decent number of how to guides uh that are in, available in various languages uh that will teach you uh how to um perform uh a lot of different uh create a lot of different infrastructure architectures. Uh So, and I've already shown you the Pulumi Registry. That's where you can see the full list of providers that Pulumi works with. And so with that, I'd like to thank everybody for your time. Again. Please stay in touch. Uh We can of course be found on Twitter. Uh But Tim and my handles are at the top of this slide. Uh We uh please again, please join the Pulumi Community Slack. You can find that at slack dot Pulumi dot com. Uh We have some additional resources available on uh on youtube at Pulumi dot at Pulumi TV. And you can view the full uh set of our open source code that is all available that includes, by the way, both the Pulumi uh the Pulumi engine, the Plumy Cli and all of our providers, uh, that is all available at github dot com slash Pulumi. And with that, uh, on behalf of Tim, I would like, I would like to thank everybody for your attention and have a lovely rest of your day. It's so long, everybody.

---
