---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Getting Started With Infrastructure as Code"
title: "Getting Started With Infrastructure as Code"
meta_desc: |
    In this 100-level introduction, Pulumi engineers introduce Infrastructure as Code concepts and answer questions about setting up resources on AWS u...
url_slug: getting-started-infrastructure-as-code
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Getting Started With Infrastructure as Code"
  description: |
    In this 100-level introduction, Pulumi engineers introduce Infrastructure as Code concepts and answer questions about setting up resources on AWS using Pulumi.  This self-guided workshop has code, slides, and pre-requisites available here: https://github.com/pulumi/infrastructure-as-code-workshop/  For questions related to this content, please go to the Pulumi #workshops channel on Slack https://slack.pulumi.com
  sortable_date: 2020-03-30T19:38:11Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/k4UpMCWxbMc
transcript: |
    OK, we can get started. So this is a getting started with infrastructure workshop with Pulumi. It is designed to be a level 100 workshop. So it will very much get you understanding the basics of how to create infrastructure as code with Pulumi. It is not designed for advanced use cases. So there are some advanced use cases available in the repository, like creating serverless applications and also creating kubernetes based applications. But today we're going to focus on three main specific topics. One just getting started with the tool and understanding the paradigm shift that will allow you to create your infrastructure with real code two. We're going to create some compute instances, some virtual machines, we're going to add some loops in there so that we can take advantage of like basic programming constructs and understand what's going on. And three, we're actually going to like deploy a Fargate based setup in Amazon so that you can actually deploy containers and understand how that actually works together. For those who don't know. Pulumi is an infrastructure is code tool that effectively allows you to understand what is happening through the paradigm shift right now. So I have a few slides and then we can go straight to the labs. So we're very much going through the, the the transition of the cloud right now. And we have different people at different levels of the transition. And we, we have at Pulumi, we've sort of broken this down into three different levels. OK. Three versions of the cloud. You have the first wave which is V one and this is like people who have picked up a, a data center effectively and moved to the cloud where you have very traditional end tier style architecture where you have a cluster of application servers and you have a cluster of database servers. And you're not taking advantage of any real sort of different pieces of the cloud and you're not taking advantage of any real sort of software as a service or platform as a service that's happening within the cloud. Then we have the V two style architecture where we start to break it down. It's less monolithic, we probably start to bring in containers into what's happening. And we've probably taken advantage of some other tools, some software as a service like monitoring tools or database tools or so on and so forth. And then we have the V three style architectures and our V three style architectures are very much connected architectures where we take advantage of a lot of the different pieces of the cloud and what's going on and we can understand um what all of the different pieces come together. We've got very connected services and we're probably taking advantage of schedulers and we're probably taking advantage of like, uh container engines on Kubernetes or, or, or other different pieces and different people have different levels that they're at right now. And I'm, I, I'm not saying that everything you should be is like level three. It's, it's a case of what Pulumi allows you to do is to do every piece of it. But we very much excel in level three because we have created a lot of API helpers that make life a lot easier to run Kubernetes and servers and so on and so forth. Now, for us, Pulumi is like a way for us to deploy your infrastructure as real code so you can write it in general purpose languages right now. We support typescript, javascript Python and we have two languages that are in preview, they're not fully uh generally uh general availability and that's go and it's um anything in the dot net ecosystem. So that's C# F sharp and VB. We very much because we're code, we allow you to like be able to have familiar software engineering techniques around testing and version of your code and we can help you enable continuous delivery work flows in your system. One of the things that we're actually moving into in the future as we allow you to enforce policies around your code so that you can actually uh ensure that security is embedded inside your system. So you can stop people creating infrastructure is code that is open to the public internet with S3 buckets or um have incompatible versions of databases or don't have things like cost allocation tags and so on. And then lastly, we believe that because we're using real tools, we're actually giving each team the ability to create the tooling and the languages that they understand themselves. So what is infrastructures code? If you're new to infrastructure code, it's it can be classed as it is a way of being able to program your code, not doing anything manually to, to eliminate error prone changes, you get to actually have previews, you get to have code views, but more importantly, it's automated and repeatable and it will give you predictable changes every time. We as humans make mistakes, we as humans continually cut corners. And because we do that, sometimes we don't always do the best things in order to get it, machines will be able to run the code again and again and they will be able to do it in exactly the same way each time. And we should actually be able to get um an understanding of what is going to change. So for us, this is modern infrastructures code up until now, infrastructural code has usually been with tooling like Yaml or Jason or Ds LS, custom Ds LS. Now we're actually allowing you to use these real languages. So you can understand um abstractions. You can use your favorite tooling in there, you can preview your changes, you can have your C I CD pipeline. You can actually get the information from your previews into your C I CD and you can start to embed sort of chat up style information in here. So for us, we're moving modern infrastructure as code for us is probably better known as the infrastructure software. So we can start to test review, follow all the best development practices that developers have been using for a long, long time and embed those inside their development workflow for your infrastructure. So Pulumi has a number of different things. Let's start from the bottom and work our way up. Pulumi has a number of providers so the providers will interact directly with the cloud. So you have providers like Aws, Azure, Google cloud relic data dog opens stack digi VM ware so on and so forth. And then based on top of those, we have AAA collection of libraries. So these are specific libraries that are helper methods, helper libraries that allow you to do things in a more efficient, more simple way. And then because we've learned from the libraries and patterns, we've actually created these ideas of frameworks called Pulumi crosswalk. So crosswalk for Aws we believe is the simplest way in order to deploy things like ecs or eks. And it is a very opinionated API that adheres to AWS best practices that allows you to do things in a very simple, very easy way. So for example, if you were to create an AWS VPC and all of it, uh a network, a VPC network using traditional tools, you would have to do things like a VPC resource, Subnet resource, right, tables, right, table, associations, routes, internet gateways, NAT gateways, public IP S and so on. Pulumi crosswalk can allow you to do that in just a few lines of code. We have also created this idea where Pulumi crosswalk is for and we can look at that in a further workshop. So infrastructure is code, there's for us, there's a few key things. Firstly, we are decorative, we may not look decorative because we're using imperative languages, but we are a declarative um setup. So you actually define end source at the end state of your resources in your code. It just executes it in an using imperative languages. Two, we can actually introduce conditions and loops into your code and you don't have to write custom logic. You can take advantage of the real language constructs and the language frameworks. In order to do this for you, we have multi provider workflows. So you can actually chain workflows together where you can start to create aws or Azure GCP infrastructure and then deploy or configure your Cober instances. On top we have reusability. So you can package all of your providers up or you can package all of your API S up or different layers of your infrastructure up and you can um share them across your company. We allow test driven infrastructure. So you can actually write real unit tests which you do not talk to the cloud and it will allow you to verify that your code works before you even start to interact with the cloud. Um We have advanced orchestration. So this is where the power of the real language is coming in. So in the example in front of me, what we're actually saying is is that we want to deploy three replicas of a Canary application. When they have been deployed, we can create the code that allows us to talk to our monitoring tool. In this case, it would be prometheus, we can check that everything is as expected and that the application is continuing to work. And then once we're happy and the check comes back as passing, we can continue um deploying the rest of the replicas of our application, we're real code because we're real code, we can talk to API S, we can talk to any SDKS that exist and you don't have to write your own API S that talk to them, anything that has an SDK or an API, we can actually import and we can talk to you from the code itself. Oh So before we get started um with the labs, there is um some of the talk about and how an organization or how things are broken down inside Pulumi. So when you sign up at Pulumi, you get an organization and inside organizations, you have a number of projects and inside a project, you have a number of stacks. So you can think of stacks in terms of an API or ex excuse me, an environment. So you can say a dev stack, a stack, a stage stack, a production stack. But you can also think of stacks as each individual developer can have their own stack. So a stack is a way of being able to segment the deployment of infrastructure. And the actual excuse me, the manages the state of the infrastructure and it's all using the base infrastructure. So let's say five members of a DEV team, we know that we have to all use the same style of infrastructure. But each of us need to be able to test independently developer, one would have their own stack and would be able to bring that stack up and down independently of developer two, but they would all be using the same base code. So this allows us to be able to segment and we actually be able to architect our code in a in a nice way so that we can talk to each other going forward. So I'm gonna stop talking because it's boring everyone. I'm sure and we can start to look at the labs. So the labs that we're going to look at today are in Pulumi infrastructure as code labs. And um if you can go to that and you will be able to see that we have four getting started. Resources for Aws. So we have labs for a uh typescript Python go and C# I'm interested to see if anyone wants to tell us or excuse me, if you could put in the chat, uh what language you will be using. And um it will be interesting to see how these different things happen. So there's a number of questions that I'm just going to address first right now. I, I what about Azure? So we do support Azure. This is a question by Slav right now. We, we have one set of labs in Azure which will be C# based, but very soon this repository will have all of the labs um for all of the languages available. We just haven't managed to get there right now. And um if you have the same principles will exist for all of the languages. So if you even just follow one of the AWS examples, you'll be able to see how we build it up and how we do different things. Um I'm not sure why people cannot unmute themselves. Um So Thomas Leo, I will send you some Aws credentials. Uh We're just having a um one of the team is just working on allowing people to ask questions for everyone. So the question is, how does this differ from the AWS CD K in the case of um AWS. So the CD K will allow you to create your infrastructure as code using real languages, but that will actually emit cloud formation templates and you still have to deploy your cloud formation template. Pulumi doesn't in any way touch cloud formation. What it actually does is it interacts with the, the API S of the cloud themselves. So it doesn't need that intermediate step of generating the the cloud formation template and then you deploy the cloud formation template. It does this automatically very good. Uh Can we see other participants questions? Uh Michael. Yes, we are working on that right now. So we will be able to um try and open these questions for other people to see a question from Jonathan Greenwood who would like to be able to use F sharp. Uh Yes, we have F sharp support but we do not have the labs set up for F sharp right now. I'm sure if we ask uh Mikhail Skoff who's one of the team and one of the staff members on the line. I'm sure he will actually be able to help you there because this is something that Michel does a lot of. What about a workshop in Digital Ocean? Nice question, Vincent. Uh We will be able to set that up. Uh If, if you're interested in doing that as part of the labs, we can, I can work with you on that because I know digital Ocean quite well. Can you use free tier stuff from Aws? Yes. This workshop is set up for free tier stuff is Pulumi free and open source. Yes. Pulumi, everything you see today is free and is open source. Pulumi itself is an open source product. Everything we do is an open source where Pulumi has pricing is when you use the Pulumi Sas to store your state. So our infrastructure has stayed because we need to know what is managed. And by default, Pulumi will, when you create an account on Pulumi, it will be a single user account that is for free. If you need to have multiple users using your same account, you would need to upgrade to a team account. And that's when Pulumi will have a cost. Now, if you want to test Pulumi in a different way, you can actually use uh an S3 or a GCP bucket or an Azure Blob storage back end, which it doesn't excuse me, talk to the Pulumi back end or the Pulumi Sas at any time. But there are some limitations of that which are that you don't get a locker. So we do not support locking out of the box. You would need to implement your own login uh locking for your state. Will I be demonstrating crosswalk today? Yes, I can demonstrate crosswalk. I can actually add some um some demos in here. Uh I will post the link to the github and I have just posted a link to everyone where the github repository in the work and the workshop is, and I'm, I'll come back and answer some more questions in a second. So there are three workshops that we're going to um talk about today. Hang on, let me just try and promote the girl. Um So we are going to have lab one, which is our modern infrastructures code. We're going to have lab two, which is provision in EC2 virtual machines and we're going to have lab three, which will be deploying containers to ECs. So this will allow you to get into a progressing level of difficulty as we go through um as we can go through uh learning the basics of Pulumi. So lab one will allow you to get up and start with Pulumi very easily and it will allow you to understand the basics of how stacks work and how configurations code works. Lab two will introduce the concept of compute and lab three will introduce a little bit more um level of resources so that different things happen. If you manage to get through a lot faster, you can start to take advantage of lab four and lab 55, but they are actually only implemented in typescript. And um today does Pulumi use the telephone provider when talking to Aws. So great question and that came from ST uh Pulumi actually will generate the crud based system using the terraform providers under the hood and we don't make any secret of that. It's open source and you could see it. We actually use it in order to generate our crowd schema, but you do not need the Pulumi, excuse me, the Terraform providers on your local machine. Pulumi handles all of that for you is rust support coming in the future. I cannot commit to that. Um, if you open an issue, this is a question by David. If you open an issue on Pulumi Pulumi and you add uh an issue that requests rust support, we can actually see if there's some community on some community want for support and we can maybe evaluate it. Then do we plan to support Ruby? This is Narendra. Um If again, there is an issue already open for plu uh for Ruby support and Pulumi Pulumi Repo. If you can go and give that a plus one on as your use case, then hopefully we can understand um people's understand uh use case of it. Does it matter if I do the Azure labs rather than Aws labs? So this is a question by Christopher. No, you can certainly do the um Azure labs, but a lot more of it will be free flowing because we haven't preprepared those labs. If you're happy to do those labs and C# then please do will this workshop demo on Aws cloud? Yes, it does. By default. I Narendra, somebody has asked, we're looking for Pulumi. When can we expect this to be released? So Pulumi is certainly in flight and we hope to have a beta of our Pulumi in the next, in the, in the coming days. Would it be ok to try out the lab using GCP? I've done some exploration of Pulumi before this and my organization is GCP. Johan. Please um do if you're interested in using GCP and if you want to, you can send some pull requests to this uh infrastructure as co workshop repository um with any GCP code that you're interested in open sourcing. Question. When will crosswalk for Python be, be available? I don't know the official date on that. Um To be totally honest with you, but any, if you open an issue on Pulumi Pulumi, you can request that information is Pulumi feasible for an org in production even without the SA non free features. Curious. Um There are, I don't know how many people to be. We, we don't track anyone who are using the um the open source back ends. So we don't actually know how many people are, are, are. Um It's, it's, it's down to the, the, the organization and the people themselves. So we don't know if it's a lot of people or a few people or, or anything. But yes, it's very feasible to use Pulumi even without the SAS um features. So we can get started if anybody can. I don't know if you're able to write some messages and chat, um to say that you're getting started with the um the labs, but um I'll continue answering questions as we go through. So I'm gonna give a quick demonstration of Pulumi right now. So, um, what I'm going to do is Pulumi is uh cli. So if I type Pulumi, you will see that there are a number of cli versions of uh a number of cli commands available. So we can actually start on scaffold the Pulumi application using the command Pulumi new oh rmrf typescript like the typescript. So, so if I run the command Pulumi you, it will actually ask me what type of application that I want to scaffold. So today, I'm going to show you very quickly how to scaffold an A to BS typescript application. And if we hit um enter, it will ask us for a project name. So we can say demo one, nope, number one workshop. I have set up many demos in the past. You know, if they excuse that, I know this one doesn't exist, you can give it a um a description. Um We can have a name that goes with it. And because I've said A W BS, it will actually ask us which region we want to deploy into today. I'm going to say Eu West one because I'm currently in Ireland and it will give me the best uh latency and we will be able to see in my ID in a second. It's downloading N PM packages. So it'll take a second. But in my ID A I will be able to see that it has generated a number of different things. Mhm. So it has generated a git ignore file. It has generated a index dot TS which we'll come back to you in a second. It has generated our package dot JSON which is our dependencies for our project. Uh It has generated Pulumi dot ya which is just a top level um application metadata and it has given the best practice on E con S config. So it has also generated this idea of Pulumi dot DEV dot Yaml because I started with Pulumi called a stack called DEV. Um It will allow me to create different stags with different regions. So right now I'm saying E us one. So my demo has E us one out of the box. Pulumi has um scaffolded an S3 bucket. So we have names but this is typescript. So all the code, it looks slightly different, but we have actually names based our code into the different pieces of what AWS say. So a W BS dot I can see a lb si can see a mesh, I can see backup, I can see auto scale and I can see cloud front cloud formation, clue build blah blah blah. So today we're actually taking advantage of S3. Um we can say S3 dot bucket and we will give it a name. So we're gonna say I ac demo and then we're going to export the ID of the name of the bucket. So if I go back to the cli, I can say Pulumi up and Pulumi up will actually tell me what it's going to do in advance. So the first thing it says it's going to do is it's going to create stack because stack is like this top level organization that um a way of organizing your code because it currently doesn't exist. And then it's gonna tell me it's gonna create a bucket. Now, if I look at the details of the bucket, we will see a number of different things. Firstly, we will see that it's defaulted to um AC L private. Um But secondly, you will see that it is going to create a bucket with a prefix. I said that it would uh a, a suffix, excuse me. Um I said that the bucket should be called um I am demo, but Pulumi tries to by default um add an auto generated string to your resource so that you can actually create new resources before deleting them. We can turn this off and we can take advantage of the arguments that get passed in and I can say bucket and I can say I don't want that as an I am demo. I want it as an I AC demo. And now if I go back and say Pulumi up it will actually keep the name of I AC demo and it will, we have overridden Pulumi and told it not to do the auto naming. It'll just take a second again and I can say yes, and we will see that we have created a bucket, that one already exists because it's shared within our organization. Um This one definitely won't exist. Um We can see that it's told us again that it's actually going to change. Um or excuse me, create um The stack is unchanged because it's quite important that it can, it can run again and again, and now it should actually create R S3 bucket and we can actually see our S3 bucket has been created. So I told you in infrastructures code allows you to run the same code again. And again, if I run Pulumi up, then Pulumi up will show us that there are no changes because the code has not changed and it is safe to run it as many times as you want. So let's add something else in here. So let's say we want to tag the bucket. I can say tags and I can say owner like 72 and I can say purpose demo and I can say place is webinar, whatever you like, whatever you want to do in here. Again, if I say blow me up, it will tell us that the only thing that needs to change in this bucket right now is that there's a difference of tags. We can have a look at the details and we can actually see that it's going to create, uh, um, all of the tags that we have specified. Um, we can say yes and it'll finish adding the tags and we can see it's updated, it hasn't changed anything in the bucket apart from the tags. And then lastly, we can actually Pulumi destroy and it will tell us what the different uh pieces of destroy are. So it tells us it's going to delete two resources because we're destroying everything in the stack, which will be the bucket on the stack can have a look at the details. So it's not going to delete anything that is currently not managed. And I can promise you that there are hundreds of S3 buckets in my account that I'm talking to. But because we have the state that it needs to delete or, or, or that it is currently managing, it will only delete those and we can destroy it as expected. There we go. So we have nothing in our stack right now. And if I Pulumi stack export, so we can have a look at our state at any point, we can see that there are no resources that are managed in here. We only have this idea of where the state is actually actually being controlled from. So I'm gonna let everyone do. I'm gonna stop sharing my screen and I'm gonna let people do the, the labs and I'm going to go back and answer some questions and if you have something that you want to talk about, you can raise your hand and we can unmute you. And, um, you can actually ask a question in person rather than, um, type in the question out. I think there were a few questions. It looks like the hands have disappeared. Um, if you were going to ask a question, you can try again. OK. So there's a question in Slack uh by Miko at present, they use Aws spec for their functional testing. Um It will be good if they can consolidate this into whatever language our project is in. How does Pulumi functional test their infrastructure? So there are a number of different articles, Michel for this. Uh Firstly, you can take advantage of using, it depends on your language really uh out of the box, we support the general testing tools. So for example, you can functional test your typescript code using Mara and Chai, you can test your go code using go test. You can use, I can't remember Mikl might be able to tell you what you can use in dot net because I don't write in dot net. And um there are people using uh Python uh like the test and tools in Python as well. So in typescript, you can actually take advantage of moa and Chai. And if there is uh a blog post on this and if I show you what you can do right here, it is somewhere here, I promise. There we go. So you're gonna test in your infrastructure using the and, and you can actually write specs that will allow you to test all of the different pieces. So I'm gonna link that in the workshop channel just so that you can actually see what's going on there. And, um hopefully that helps you. Hi, Karoun Cara. Um You can ask your question. Yeah. Hi. This is uh from Stockholm Sweden. We are successfully using Pulumi in our organization which is uh three and we find it really useful and constructive as well. Uh We use typescript in order to achieve the infrastructure uh building. Uh We, we actually create a cluster uh through type scripting uh typescript coding. We end up facing a cluster being created with a default windows profile. Every time we build the uh the uh cluster, we, we end up having the windows profile being updated all the time. We, we, we would like to disable this behavior. So we don't find this at any point in time uh at any point in time. So how do you have any suggestions on this for us? Um So I guess without seeing your code, um it's difficult for me to understand what is continually trying to change. So if you, if you want to um in the community slack um that people are joining, if you can go in there, you can actually post, you can dm me the code, um, and I can have a look and see why you're, um, continually trying to, um, uh, to changes and I can make the suggestion, um, of what's, what's potentially incorrect. Ok. Yeah, we'll try to make you up for a slack channel then. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. So, um, II I posted a link in the chat and, uh, excuse me, Mi Mi posted it, which is our community Slack and you can actually go in there and um try and see what's wrong. OK. Yeah, I can do that. OK. Thank you. Thanks for Yes, that was helpful. Yeah. Yeah. Hi. I think it's. Yes. Uh Hello. Hi. Alright. So I'm also a a happy Pulumi user but uh I have a few questions that um I mean, so far my uh research didn't answer me yet on Google. Uh The first one is um for example, when I create um a cluster with Pulumi, uh you have of course the default name space and stuff like that. And if you are using other to like other, for example IU and a couple of other tools they need uh some labels to be set. And um yeah, I couldn't find a way to um usually with Pulumi, you can import resources. Right. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. And um this is my first question. How can I import the different name so I can uh set its labels. And uh second question is um so uh when I use the helm chart in Pulumi, basically Pulumi just um let's say, dry, dry install and then gets the templates uh out of the helm and then apply them directly to the cluster. Uh This is what I understand from uh um how Pulumi works with him. But I feel like uh um um doesn't feel very right to have a two layers on that. Um So, because we, we already have the hand charge for our services. Um Is it uh is there a better way to do uh the deployment without him or um I'm not sure if I'm, I'm uh using the right uh the right, let's say, practice to deploy. This is my second. So, so yes, you do. You actually, you don't need to use Helm with Pulumi. So Pulumi has its own built in uh way of deploying. So if I show you very quickly, so there are no, which language are you using? Pulumi with typescript, uh typescript? OK. Cool. So Pulumi um crosswalk, uh uh Cobert crosswalk will actually help you here. So if I show you that you can actually there, I I've just opened an article on my screen and you can see where we have taken this that has actually been uh created from hell. And we have actually simplified it using a number of different methods. But the one that you're actually looking for right now is K dot deployment where you can actually pass in your spec and you can uh link it to the um the pod builder above and that's what will do your deployment. So you don't actually need to use help in order to do it. Pulumi has native methods that will allow you to talk directly to. Um Yep. Yep. Uh And what about the um default name space or whatever default result of that creates uh what's the way to import them and then maybe modify them or something like we got it. So um each entire script specifically, each um each top level class has three parameters. Ok. So we have name, we have arguments. Um We have this third one which is called custom resource options. Ok. And custom resource options will allow you to run an import and that is where you would actually uh be able to import specifically your default name space and it would allow you to be able to um manage it that way. So if uh I'm trying to, ok. Uh Can you point me to uh to the documentation where I can look for more on that? I was uh I certainly will, I will, I will link you to the documentation directly? Ok. Ok. Thank you very much. No worries. Thank you. Thanks. Hey, did you have another question or did you just not um lower your hand? Uh No, no, no, but um just uh I'm, I'm not seeing your screen. Like is that in purpose or having a problem with my loader? No, I, I stopped, I stopped sharing this because I'm answering questions here. Ok, great. Yeah, sure. And I will get, yeah. Um I will get the um the link on somewhere in the go to webinar page or where or it will show it on your screen for what? Sorry, for which uh for the uh import resource. Uh I, I will, I will post it. Um uh I will post it in the chat. Ok. Yeah, that would be nice. Thanks. Ok. No worries. Ok, cool. Hi. Is it pre have you got a question? Hi, Karen. You got a question? Yeah, I've got one more question. Uh This is regarding short installation. We are trying to achieve it through Pulumi itself. We, we see the custom resource definitions of that particular chart is not being or not being installed. Is, is it something that you would be fixing soon or customs resource? Yeah. Custom resource definitions of humanities. They are not being installed. Oh, is that a bug? Um Can you um open a bug on uh Pulumi and uh we can have somebody look into that um this week? Yeah, that would be really great. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry about that bug. I didn't realize there was a bug there. Yeah. Thank you very much. Yeah. Have you got another question? Yep. Uh I just uh sent the link. I I asked the question actually on Slack uh a couple of days ago. OK. It's about uh so let me explain um in our um services we need to mount um like the root certificate as uh the same as in any browser, like in Firefox or whatever. So I need to mount it as a config map in a certain um uh path. And uh unfortunately, the, the root certificate is so huge and um it seems like from the way I understand it, uh Pulumi uses apply to uh to, to add and modify resources on, on the cluster. And while using apply, uh it seems um like in Cober is there is a uh a thing called last uh last uh state about the resource and it has certain um certain uh like size and the config map uh exceeded that size. Is there a way to uh to tell Pulumi to use create or how I get around this issue? Ok. It certainly sounds as though because the size is exceeded. That sounds like um a bug in our, how our gr how our provider is talking to our engine and GR PC, um the best thing to do there is to open an issue and uh we should be able to raise the size which will allow, which will allow you to be able to um push a bigger response from the. It seems like, yeah, from, from my research, it seems like a issue. Like with uh with that. Uh but let me, yeah, I can also raise this issue. Yeah. Yeah, I think, I think it's as, that's a specific limitation in the um system then we could, it's probably best to open an issue and ask the question as to what is the best way around that? Ok. Oh, nice, thanks. No worries. Yeah, that's, oh, I am muted. You very fast there. I'm really sorry. What were you gonna say? Yeah. Uh That's it. I, I will just uh conclude. I was just, that's all from my side. Perfect, thanks. Thanks. So I'm not sure if anyone's actually making their way through the labs right now. Um If you are, can you post and chat or send a question or something so that we understand what you're up to? Ok. So there are some people going through the labs right now. Um It looks like Greg, you're stuck on two at lab four. Can you um is there any problems with it? I see another hand for jury. Uh Yes. So the the link that you sent me is uh I, I tried this method before and actually to import the resource, you need to specify the idea of it, right? And um the question is how I can know the idea of the default name space if I didn't import it yet. Got it, got it, got it, got it. I, I understand what you're saying right now. So you don't know what the name space is. You actually? Ok. Let leave that one with me and I promise I will post an answer into the workshop Slack. Um So that uh I get the, I get the correct answer for you. OK. II I think I know what it is but I need to verify that's the case. Oh, nice, thanks because uh I, I tried to import with the name of the name space like default but it doesn't seem to, to get it like a Pulumi complains. It says like I couldn't find anything with that ID. Got it, got it, got it, got it. Yeah. Ok. I leave that one with me. Ok. Yeah. Hi Kara. A question. Uh so sorry. Probably the last question. Yes. No worries. I understand that Pulumi provides policy as code out of the box. My question here is how, how different is it from uh the cloud provider policies say for instance or back access policies or something like that? Ok, great question. So uh policy is code will adhere to, it will actually allow you to write policies against the specific code that you're writing. So to paraphrase that. So what, what policies code is a way of actually stopping cloud infrastructure is code making its way to your cloud. It's not like um our back based stuff or things like that. You, you would, you would have, you would be able to control your r back based policies code through the Pulumi console and Pulumi. But um it, it, it's very much specifically against the code that you're writing to stop that code going into production. Ok. Is it uh basically the policies that you set around the source code? Yes. Ok. That's great. Yes. And it would, and it would uh your C I CD pipeline would actually stop code that you don't deem worthy of going into, into, into production from going into production when you have policy code. So like things like you know, as I said earlier and S3 buckets or Azure blobs that are wide open to the world, your policy is code would stop that happening so that people can't actually download things that they're not supposed to from your, from your system. Yeah, that makes really complete sense. Yeah, got it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. Ok. So can anybody tell me if they've managed to finish the first or the second labs? Ok. So very good. No, has finished lab one. Anybody managed to finish the compute labs for actually building machines? Excellent. Christopher is managing to get through different pieces. I think it's nicer. It's also finished. Lab one. Anyone else, Lenny is going on to lab two right now? Thanks for joining us now, sir. So Alex has asked a question in Slack. How would a lab example look if I need to update a bucket after I created it, deployed a website and did some checks then later change existing bucket to have a public website policy. I'm not quite sure what the question is there, Alex. Um, I don't think I follow if you could give me a little more info that would be useful. Ok, Alex, I can give you that demo if you want. So, right by, we have a bucket. Ok. So, um, let's just take out some of these custom options and let's just take out the tags. Ok? So we're going to say that there's a website. Well, I think you are not here on this. Oh, yeah, you should be able to see right now. Ok, I see this. Ok? Cool. So we're gonna have a website and in this case, our index document of the website will be index dot html. So let's create a folder called site and let's create a file called index dot html as we did in the um demo. And I'm gonna say H one, we're just gonna say hello, hello world. So then we have a bucket object and we have the bucket that goes with that which will be bucket and we have an AC L which will be public read and we have a content type. I'm just gonna set a hard code this rather than actually look through it, text dash html. Excuse me. And then lastly, we have a source which will be a new Pulumi dot asset dot file archive, excuse me, asset, which will point to um I have to join which will be site and index dot html and we can run this. I'm just gonna skip the preview because I know this should work for me. So it's gonna create the bucket. It's gonna create the bucket objects. This is brand new. I had destroyed everything before. Should finish fast if you just give it a second. So we've created our bucket. Now, we creating our bucket object and we have the website Endpoint. And if I curl the website endpoint, I should get Hello world. There we go. So we actually see what's going on. So we're up to everything we need. So now we can actually say um AC L here and we can say public greed or whatever it needs to be and the flow would just be again another Pulumi up which would tell us exactly what's going to happen. In this case, all it's going to do is change the, the AC L in the bucket from private to public read. We can see that right here. The AC L goes from private to public read and we say yes and we just keep iterating on the infrastructure as you need to. Does that answer your question, Alex? Not exactly. OK. So do you, I'm gonna unmute you Alex and then that way you can at least talk with me so we can understand if that's cool if you raise your hand um in the, in the webinar then I can um unmute the correct person. Hi, Alex. Hey, hey, hey. Uh so like what I mean is like you go and change here the original definition of the bucket and then you deploy this again. I mean, what if I need to set the? Yeah, like what if I need to set the AC L as part of the logic of part of the flow? Hey, if my deployment does not upfront here, right? But uh at a later stage, OK. Let's, let's say that after you create a bucket, you deploy content on the bucket, then you need to create a rows, then you need to run some tests on the content, maybe call some uh CD N API to purge whatever it has currently and only then open this bucket for public access. Oh, I see. I see. OK. OK. OK. So based on tests, you would want to actually set later later on in the pipeline when everything is green and third party is notified CD N is clean only then I want to open the region. Got it. So programmatically, you're not going to be able to do that right now. Um Only because Pulumi is a cli based like application, there's no SDK that you can call to change the Pulumi code via an SDK and run it as part of an SDK. Um I'm not quite sure, I mean, like later on, can I like set, go later on here in this script and do bucket those set properties. Yeah, you can't do that specifically in this code. Um Just decorate the object with more properties. It would still require Pulumi to actually be run as a Pulumi up face. So like a cli Pulumi up because we don't support like um setting it any other way right now. It's an interesting news case if you could could you open, for example, can I run a a separate action later on to uh change this definition of this bucket or any other resource? Yeah, like what you could do what you could do here. Um Just a suggestion, you could say constant config equals new Pulumi dot config and you could say um constant AC L equals config dot get. Um we can say AC L state and then in here, you can actually say um AC L equals um it would be AC L or um like like private. So what it would do is this, this would effectively say is that if there is a conflict value set for AC L then set it in the pipeline. If it's not set, then default to private. And you could actually have um in your, in your cli once your cli or excuse me, once your Pulumi application is passed or it's tested, you can have a github action which will set the config value and the next Pulumi up will actually be able to set your AC L based on that. Ok. So I will have a github action that calls Pulumi configure set to set the value and then Pulumi up. Yes. And that would do it that way. All right. All right. That works. Ok, thanks. Thank you. Thanks so much. Hi, Andrea. Uh Have you got a question? No, no question for Montreal. Have you got another question? I'm just on muting you right now, too. Great. Yep. Uh So, um, maybe this one is a little bit specific but uh in some of my services, I'm also dealing with terror certificates. And um, so basically we created a, a service that plays around with, um, it can inject site cards to our services with a specific certificate, let's say. And in order for that to work, I need to generate um a certificate with the CS R config and I do that with open SSL right now and I found out that Pulumi also has a TLS library. Um, but uh can I just like, I mean, instead of, um, because there is some limitation, I couldn't set some values and stuff like that. Um Can I just pass my convic to the TLS uh um library that you that uh Pulumi have or? Yeah, this is my question like uh so the TLS library is probably used in order to manage it I I in all itself, right? So you would like be able to generate your own, um, uh self issued certificates that way you probably wouldn't be able to do it based on your own. Um CS R. Uh, what you would have to do here is you would have to use what's called Pulumi uh dynamic providers. Uh where you can actually implement your own crowd functionality. And inside the create, you can actually have it talk to your CS R um in order to generate a certificate. So here you can shell out using your cli or you can use an API call and um you would be able to do your own custom logic in there. Um which will allow you to generate your own certificate and then bring that out of the dynamic provider and pass it into the next resource along the line. Yep, uh I will check that out. So basically, um I will extend the uh the class or the library, right? If, if, if I show you right now, um you can still see my screen, right? Yes, I do. Yeah. So we only have one example right now of a dynamic resource um which is for interacting with C DNS in um Azure. But what you'll see is is that you create your resource group, you create your account, you create your container and your CD M profile and your end point. And then we actually shell out to this idea where we've got a CD N custom domain resource and inside your own custom do inside your own custom domain resource here. You can actually um create your own code which will allow you to go off and validate your um custom domain and actually be able to do any and enable you know, any specific interaction that is not supported directly out of the box with your um with, with Pulumi. So here is where you will be able to shell out and call your um your CS R and say give me a certificate back. And then based on that, you can actually provide the response of the output from the custom um excuse me, from the dynamic resource and you will be able to bring that in inside your Pulumi resource. OK. Makes sense. Um So this is the an example and uh if I would like to know more about there is there is a more, yeah. So there's uh there is um in the programming model, I believe we have dynamic. Uh There we go, there is a section on dynamic providers um in our programming model, docs which will allow you to understand how to create your own um individual um uh dynamic resource and what the, the API looks like for it. Oh, thank you very much. I will have a look at that. Uh No worries. Yeah, I still see a hand up from Andrea, Andrea. Do you have a question? You are self muted. No. OK. Not for now. Thank you. It's OK. Hi there. OK. Oh, no question. OK. OK. OK. Because Ok. My hand it is uh, up now, I think. Ok. Yes. Ok. Ok. Sorry, sorry. No worries. Thank you. No worries. No worries. Thank you. Ok. So we're like an hour and a little bit in. Has anyone managed to get on finish? Lab two? Ok. Lab two is done by a few people. Anyone managed to get on to lab three. Oh, wow. Somebody's actually already on lab four. Very good. I presume that's a typescript lab for them. Hi, we have a question for Martin. Uh Yes, actually I posted uh those questions on Slack, but it's like uh about uh how fast you are getting support for some Eks uh features. Like for example, I posted two specific questions. There is the like uh things that uh for example, may have already be in cloud formation or not. And one is this envelope encryption and another one is public private API end points for the uh API uh servers. How, how does it? Great, great question. Great question. So, um as I said earlier, you may not have heard it. Um Pulumi generates um the crud actions based on the Terraform provider. So if the Terraform provider supports it, then we and Pulumi will support it um within a matter of hours um if it is not supported um within Terraform and it's something you really need to do and there is an API end point for it and the um A WDK um you can actually call out to the SDK from your code um and actually enable the different end points for it. So you can either do that in a dynamic provider as I demoed uh or as I, as I spoke about before, or you can actually call directly the SDK required and actually set the value from the SDK because you have code and you can actually interact with the API directly um from your code. Does that make sense? Yes. Yes. But I have maybe just one quick question related to this, of course, in Terra form, uh you need to be like very careful about versioning. I mean, basically of the terra form itself. And because then, I mean, if the state changes, then you cannot go back and you have to like update all the terra form uh that you run from everywhere. So is Pulumi also like, uh uh I mean, may have this problem or the state is somehow handled differently. I mean, basically just if I update uh one of the uh providers do like by mistake, do also everyone else has to catch up with the, with those changes. Got it. Ok. So I can show you um, the Pulumi state is different. Um I'm just gonna share my screen quickly. Um So our state, uh our, our ur our urns for individual uh pieces are actually a little different, which makes life a little easier here. So our urn is uh urn Pulumi and then we have the name of the stack, we have the name of the project and then we have the type of the object. And then we actually have like the naming of the object. So we're not really hard coded to a specific version or anything like that. So you can update things independently and you can actually be able to I I it's a little easier to rename objects and factor objects and move things around. And we actually have this idea um in our SDK called alias where even if you do rename it, you can actually add the old alias in here and um it will not recreate the object. So let's pretend um I have renamed from I AC demo um to something else. Then I can actually put like the equivalent of I AC demo in here, whatever the resource alias was in here. And this one would be like test and Pulumi will be able to understand that um it has moved and it has changed and not to change it because it has like um it, it understands the relationship to the old code March. Yeah, I was, yeah, I was actually thinking about something else about updates to the like individual models that we are using, whether this introduces, you know, some backwards incompatible changes. But it's like, so like a specific version of uh Yeah. Yeah. And like your code here is using like version 1.1 of Pulumi Aws and you need 1.2 then you need to do it for everything inside your application. I'm afraid actually. No, you could, yeah, you would, you would need to do it. I, I don't know how individual if you were using go then you could, like, version it individually. I, I'm not sure about other languages to be totally honest with you how, how it would happen. Maybe if you, um, so you, you've posted this in the, the, the workshop channel in Slack, right? So we can have a look at this and we can actually see, um, if there's a way around this for you. Ok. I have a question from, uh, actually I didn't raise anything. Maybe it's a shortcut. But yeah, it's in it. Yeah, I, I'm, I'm writing a question on Slack. So let me finish it. Maybe it's better to see it on then. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Sure. Yeah. So we're getting close to finishing here. Somebody is waiting on a t-shirt. Andreas waiting on a t-shirt there. I, I have no physical swag. I am stuck in Ireland right now and I'm not at home. Otherwise I would happily, um, be able to send you some things. Has anyone finished all the labs? I think we're getting close to running out of time. We have like 20 minutes left. If anybody has any last questions, probably now is the time to start asking the questions. Looks like Rey's finished all of the demos, all of the labs. Thank you. You got a lot of people finishing right now. Ah Yeah. Um So Mika wants a demo of crosswalk so I can demo this. Let me just destroy what's currently in my application. So, crosswalk, um I'm just open in some examples here. Ok. So crosswalk is this idea where we have created, um, some opinion ended API S over the top of all the different things. So let's pretend if we weren't using crosswalk, I needed a VPC, I needed a new Aws VPC dot EC2 dot VPC. And I would need to create subnets there, new Aws EC2 dot subnet, excuse me and so on and so forth. And I would need to create all the different resources. So crosswalk makes this a little easier. So let's say that we want to load balance or excuse me, create a VPC that sits across multiple availability zones. Then I'm actually going to wrap this in a sync because I actually want Pulumi to go off and um do some work before it actually um read the data source back before it actually goes and creates new things. So I can say constant A Z equals new equals excuse me, a weight last screen again. Oh, there we go. Thanks, Mico. So first thing we can do is we can go off and get our availability zones and then based on getting our availability zones, we can say S DPC equals new Aws X dot EC2 dot VPC. OK. So here we're gonna save my VPC. Now, if I run this code right now, what it's actually going to do um it will create, so just in this single line of code right here, this Aws X EC2 VPC, it will create a number of resources or it will tell us it will create a number of resources. So it's hidden away a lot of the different pieces of it. You know what? I'm just gonna take it out of synch. Now, I want you to see what it's actually doing here and it will tell me, come on, you can see it's actually wrapped all these resources. So by default, it will give us the internet gateway. It'll give us a public subnet, it'll give us a private subnet, it'll give us the right, the right table association. It will give us a that gateway. It will give us an elastic IP and it will actually plumb everything together. So out of that top level one line of code, it will allow us to create a complete set up of our VPC, adhering to the um the best default, what's going on inside A O BS. Now, if I want to extend that, I can actually say uh firstly, I can give it a Cider block. So I'll give it 10, 10 00 slash 16. Just make just to show that it, it's actually changed. I can enable DNS host names across the VPC that can enable DNS support across the VPC. I can actually say this is where I can turn around and I can say a Z equals Aws dot Get availability zones here, I can say the number of availability zones that I want to balance across by default. It's all that's um excuse me, it's, it's one in here. So I can actually say a Z dot names dot length and now it's going to balance across all of the availability zones and this gate availability zones called. So I know in in uh E us one, it will be three, but I can say the number of not gateways. So I want one per availability zone again, can be zones that names that length and then I can create subnets. So subnets is, is is a collection and I can say that I want to create a type and I want there to be public subnets which will have a Cider mask of 24 and we want them to be named uh public. And then I can also create a type of subnet which will be private here. It'll be a Cider Mosque of 20. And we can also say that the name of those should be private. So just by extending the code, if I go back now and I say pull me up, it was 31 resources before now, we should see a lot more resources being created because we've created extra uh not gateways, extra elastic IP S and extra subnets and rights and right table associations. And we should see a lot more resources that are actually being created. So you go 44 resources and in a very short amount of code. So it's like 15 lines, 16 lines of code. We've been able to scaffold our entire VPC with all the subnets, all the rights, all the right table associations, the internet gateways and not gateways and the public IP Si Hope that answers your question, Mico. In fact, I'm going to on youtube and you can tell me or Alex, sorry, not Mi Alex. Alex. Does that answer your question? Uh Yeah. Yeah, I was going to ask about the logs to answer that too. So I don't have collision with the, if I have side to side with the and stuff. Yes. So we can actually like have a look. So the Cider blocks in here, it will based on you see that it's done slash 24 for the subnets because I've asked for the public subnets to be slash 24 and I've asked for the private subnets to be slashed uh 20. So it's um going to control them that way. Ok. OK. That's great. Thanks. So we have a few minutes left. If anyone has any last questions, I have two hands raised. So marching question, a quick question. So I can see that there is a next workshop and I think this requires like EKS set up. Is that correct? We won't be doing eks with Pulumi or you won't be showing that. Uh So it's, it's all included. So uh basically everything in the infrastructure is code workshops. Um There's five, there's the basic setup, then there's compute, then there's ECs, then there's EKS and then there's serverless and this one was sort of taken us through the, the like compute and if anyone wanted to do the ecs, then they um can do it. But um otherwise there will be other webinars that go into other um more in depth pieces. Yeah, because I can see that there is another one that is planned I think like in a, in a week or, or something like this or, or a bit more and this one, does it require Eks set up or, or not? Like this is my question. Oh, so next week is going to be talking about uh more advanced use cases around deploying into um eks and so on. So yes, it will require that. OK. Question for Mika. You are muted. You have muted yourself. Can you hear me now? Yes, I can. Right. Awesome. Um So what's the admin? So uh um not, not a sort of native developer, but what's the best way to sort of explore uh the Pulumi SDK or libraries as it were, you know, to find out what's available um particularly for creating things with a crosswalk and how do you do it yourself? Interesting. So, crosswalk as of today, as of the 30th of March um is only available in typescript. Um We are trying to make that no longer be the case. We're trying to make crosswalk available in all languages. We may not make it as part of our um but we we're continually trying to go there. Um The documentation for crosswalk is there is available, but the best thing to do would be to look at some of the examples in the, the Pulumi. So Pulumi dot com actually let me just share my screen. You see my screen right now. Uh Yep. So if you go to the Pulumi Aws X reel and inside, no, you'll see all of the different name spaces that are available in here. So we have pieces for SQSSNSR DS Lambda. All not everything is available because crosswalk is being created like piece by piece rather than like auto scripted and auto generator because it has to adhere to like the best practices of Amazon, but it is something that's there. It's something that's, that's being developed continually. And if there's something actually missing or you need to ask an individual question, the best thing to do is just raise an issue in, in the, in the repo and uh you'll be able to get an answer that way. Ok. Yeah. Good. Thank you. No worries. Ok, guys, we have 10 minutes left. If anyone has any last questions I have another question from. Is that right? Uh I don't know if, if uh there is there is a shortcut doing this uh raising hands. But yeah, um I got a response um to my question from a guy from Mika. So OK, perfect, perfect. Thanks Big mom. Mhm Martin. You got a question. I have one and I also posted this on Slack actually because if I remember, well, at the beginning of the workshop, you say that develop different developers may have different stacks like reuse the same code. Is this correct? If I Yes, yes, yes. So if I, if I show you right now, so um so here you'll see Pulumi stack LS. So we can list the stacks that are available. We can see that DEV is there and I know you can Pulumi stack in it and I can say test and I can say Pulumi stack. L si can see that there are two stacks, one of them test is currently selected and I can Pulumi stack, select DEV to move back to the DEV stack. And I can actually rev the code independently, like bring it up and down independently of each other. Yeah. So now the question is those stocks now you own like two of the stocks, they have like a different state, each of them or this is a third state. It's completely different state. So they're in the, the state is completely independent of each other. OK. So now, so the question is how do you court? Because I imagine, you know, we have a like large project, large stack and if someone wants to actually change something there, so if you have uh like different developers working on the same road resource, and I, I mean, I imagine that they would need to somehow use the same name of the resource. You somehow have a fixed name of the resource. And then I don't know if there's any way to prevent, you know, stepping on each other's toes. Like when trying things from different branches or question, there certainly is a way of doing it. So if I show you, we can create like test infra dot ts, excuse me. And here I can say class X implements um Pulumi dot cost. What if I import star as Pulumi from up Pulumi Pulumi? And here we can actually say, so let's pretend this is in a different repository completely. We can actually implement the the Pulumi component resource. And inside the component resource, we can have our constructor. Um and we can have the different code and instead of putting everything in the same code, we can actually say constant X equals U X. So we're actually calling out to that library actually, let's make it. Yeah. So you can have a version library that you can call it to and you can pass in any constructors and anything that this separate library you can actually um version in its own way. And then that way each and every individual developer can upgrade to the different version of the code as they see. So they can actually opt into the upgrade rather than actually being forced to do the upgrade. And that way they can still completely um independently of each other and read their stacks. Does that answer your question, Martin? I was rather thinking like if someone more, you know, because I imagine, you know, some of those changes or larger on larger there will be maybe many of them or like in order to develop like a the code, you have to try several times to see what you get from the details, whether this is what doesn't answer your question much and you can post on um like on, on the I think it's still, it's still there. So maybe, you know, yeah, maybe that's Michael. Do you still have a question? Oh, no, sorry. Go put it down. There you go. OK. No worries, March. And I could see you were trying to speak back to me. I'm really sorry. I don't know what happened there. Well, no, no, I'm just saying that uh I mean, the question is there is just rather like concurrent updates on the same resource. I mean, how this thing, how this problem can be solved because I think this may happen if you have several people and just by mistake and just looking for some kind of protection against this and what's the best set up to, to achieve it? Got it. So this is actually why um this is one of the reasons why the um auto naming exists so that if there are multiple people working on the stack at the same time or multiple stacks actually providing the same resources. So Pulumi will actually rename the resources. So this is what I showed earlier. So we have constant bucket equals new Aws s3 dot bucket. So when we say my bucket, so it auto names. So here it's actually gonna be my bucket dash. Let's just pretend it's like a small string. Each individual developer will get their own random suffix and they won't actually clash using the same bucket name. Yeah, but, but I say what I want to say that I have just one production packet and I want to change something on this bucket. I mean, I don't want to create a new one. I, I just, you know, II I need something that it's shared actually. And I want to have like some kind of protection that someone, you know, different people do just at the same time, changes to this resource. Oh I see what you mean. So you want state level locking that's only available in the Pulumi, it's not available in the open source back end. But if I actually um two people using massage can't actually make um the same call at the same time because Pulumi will say there's an operation and update and it will stop both people trying to um, do the same things in the same bucket. Ok. And this happens at what level you say at the A P A calls level or I mean? Ok. Yes. So I can try and let me just stop sharing my screen so that I don't show you my credentials quickly. Ok? If you can see my screen again right here. Um So I don't know if it's gonna be fast enough to be able to do this Pulumi stack, select the roommate up. This is where this doesn't work and it embarrasses me. There you go. So you'll see. Um It's actually running in this window right here and you'll see that there's a 409. Another update is currently in progress because two updates at the same time can't happen using the Pulumi. Yeah, but, but this is the same stock. Yes. So what I was referring to was this initial comment that you made that different developers may have different stocks? Yes, but you wouldn't have individual developers having different stacks of the same production stack because they are different resources. So each developer would have to effectively log in through the production stack and be able to update it that way. Hm. OK. So let's think of developers having their own stock being their own individual development stack, not a an individual version of the production stock because that's, that will be different stacks at that point because there will be different state. Yeah, but is there any way to like, enforce this because, you know, they can always happen like that? Some, someone just doesn't know that he creates actually something that corresponds to the production resource? I don't know if, if this is like something that it's already has been noticed or I've, I've personally, but that a personal, I've never run into that specific use case. I think that would be sort of more like a workflow within your company. I don't think there's anything in Pulumi that can stop that. I guess the only thing if you're using the would be that you can use back in order to stop individual people updating individual projects or stacks. So if you have a production stack and you, you want individual developers not to be able to update it, then they will be put in a group that would stop them from updating it and only specific people will be able to like, promote to production. Yeah, I think in this case, I can certainly, I can certainly talk more with you about it and see what we can do in order to, to make your life easier there. Um And we can work that out for you. I think this is mostly I'm not sure exactly, but I, I'm thinking this is maybe related because I would have maybe many resources that already exist. There will have to be adopted actually. And I don't know if this is like something that when you adopt resources, you somehow need to keep their names or things like this. And then you know. Yeah, it, it's, it's basically, yeah. Yes. So you would need to create the name here. So uh when you import, you can actually say import on it would be like the name of the bucket. So I ac demo and if this name doesn't correspond to what Pulumi Auto names, it, Pulumi will not import it. Pulumi will force you to say, oh, wait a minute, this is actually going to recreate your bucket. So you have to enforce the naming and then that way only then will Pulumi be able to import that specific resource in as long as Pulumi isn't going to um uh destroy it when it brings it in if that makes more sense. Yeah, that's right. But if I have like resources like this and then it's just a question of how to organize this. Now, the developers, they can have their own version, which I mean, it's kind of like a mixture of things that are created by Pulumi and things that are already existing and important and need to be imported. Got it. So you're, you're in the community slack, right? Um Let's, let's take it to DM and the community Slack because I think we've run out of time and I can see if we can come up with a way of organizing it to, to make that work for you. Is that ok? Yeah. Yeah, thanks Paulson. Thanks. OK, folks, we have actually run out of time. Uh I think I see a hand up from for one last question. Uh No, I just want to say thank you. And um yeah, I think we, we, we, we met in Berlin when you did the workshop if I'm not wrong. Oh, wonderful. Yeah. So yeah, so thank you. Thank you so much for joining. Thanks. Thanks. If anybody has any other questions, um you can sit around in the community Slack and ask as many questions as you need to. Um The Community Slack is actually quite busy and uh there's a lot of good information being shared. There are some upcoming webinars um after this. So we actually have a webinar on Wednesday uh in the evening because it will be uh United States time. Uh Washington where, how to create infrastructure specifically and go this week, there is also a managing any cloud with dot net. And then next week, uh we're actually going to have the second part of this workshop, which will be much more advanced infrastructures code. So how to create more uh advanced infrastructure. So like creating the infrastructure in Amazon or whatever and then actually updating it um to deploy into Kubernetes and so on and so forth. So it'll be chaining different providers together in order to do that. And then we have some further ones around policies, code and Cober netti specific workshops. So if anybody has any other questions, please go and post them in the community. Slack. And I thank everyone for your time.

---
