---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Matty and Pj do some Python"
title: "PulumiVision - Matty and Pj do some Python"
meta_desc: |
    Pj Metz (GitLab) and Matty Stratton spend some time learning just what they do and don't know about Python
url_slug: pulumivision-matty-pj-do-some-python
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Matty and Pj do some Python"
  description: |
    Pj Metz (GitLab) and Matty Stratton spend some time learning just what they do and don't know about Python
  sortable_date: 2022-01-14T09:22:05Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/m43KJYnMdhs
transcript: |
    That's the thing. It is an hour, a live stream is an hour of Cold Open. You're always expecting the show to start and then after an hour it just ends instead. So, uh so funny again, like, like vamping time while, you know, people are joining or whatever if they actually do. Um So my podcast, so on Arrest of de uh about a year or so in, I was listening to some other show and they would do a Cold Open that was like out of context. Do they would actually very intentionally find a, a clip from the episode that made no sense out of context and that was their open and then go into credits. And I always thought that was funny. So I started doing Cold Opens like that on ad O but not out of context. But just like, I would find like, what's the little, either funny or pithy little. So then, uh after a while I got tired of editing the show and uh Bridget who's one of, one of our co-host, her uh husband is an audio editor and a V pro and stuff. And we're like, OK, we're gonna pay somebody, let's say, you know, keep it in the family. And so Joe started editing, but I was like, I was like, what's he gonna do with The Cold Opens? Because I'm like, he's not in tech, but he is amazing at it partially because he, you know, back when we traveled, he traveled the world with his wife who was a speaker at conference. Like Joe knows all the debs jokes, right? And my favorite thing because this is going on in years. My favorite thing when I get the audio back from him is I'm always like, what did he pick? What's it called? Yeah, I was like, oh, it was amazing. Hi, Engine. So Engine joined, uh, he's in, uh, he's in the youtube chat. So not in the Twitch, but, you know, carry that on. So, yeah, we're, uh, we're gonna do some little, uh, Python and, uh mostly talking about sloppy Joe's. Um, I feel like floppy Joe episode. It is, it is the sloppiest of it's definitely sloppy. Uh um But maybe before we get into, we, we'll, we'll do a little, uh, div diverge into sloppy Joe's in a little bit, but we'll start with a little bit of like maybe background on, on why we decided to do this randomly today. Um So yesterday, yesterday I saw BJ Tweet. He's like, hey, I'm gonna be streaming some Python stuff and I was like, damn, I don't know what to do on Pulumi vision tomorrow. I'm like, I also don't know, Python. Why don't we, like, come and vibe on, on some Python? So, uh, maybe before we go into that other stuff, why don't you, like, kinda give us a, maybe not a recap of what you did yesterday, but, like, what are you doing? And why were you doing it and? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, of course. So. Ok. So, first off, I'm PJ Betz. Hi. Um, you can find me at Mets and around all over the place. Like, I don't know how I looked into getting Met and around and that being my brand because like, it's a decently popular last name, but Twitter Twitch, I think I have met and around dot com. I haven't touched it in a while. So don't judge me on that and your, your linkedin that is on Mets and around is wrong. Oh, good. I'll have to fix that. It's going to because I was looking, I was looking for a picture and then I was like, well, your linkedin will probably be like a real bit. And then I was like, no, I wasn't, I didn't actually search for you on linkedin. I just clicked on the link. I have that website was like my second website I ever, ever built and I had just learned how to make a dot net website and I was like, no, I can do it for anything, you know that like gung ho I've learned something. I'm only gonna do that and I did, I did it once, never touched it again. It was, it was naughty. Um But yeah, so yesterday, one of, one of my goals um uh I'm an education evangelist. So it's like Deverell, but my developers are students. So one of my goals is to make workshops and make things that students can easily digest in one of the most popular languages they use is Python and I don't know it at all. Um I started out in C# I've written all my Twitter bots in node. So I don't know Python. End of story. I learned to code on Code Academy and I know they have a Python course. So I was like, all right, it's January. Every time I go to learn Python, I'm gonna get up on Code Academy and I'm just gonna stream it because it automatically makes content for someone else who's learning. It's uh a great way for me to keep myself accountable because if it's just me, I'm gonna spend all my time just listening to old say anything, records and being sad in my room. But like if I actually get on and stream, it's, it's much better. So, yeah, yesterday I just decided I had room in my schedule and I went, just get online, just do it. So I, I tweeted, I was gonna do it five minutes later. I was up and running and uh that's uh as soon as I said it that you were like PJ we with Python tomorrow and I was like I said, yeah, totally. And then I think afterwards I went wait just so, you know, I'm literally just learning like this is brand new, but that's why this is perfect. So again, like, you know, with Pulumi, we have lots of languages and Python is one that I don't know, barely at all. And so I was like, OK, I want to kind of learn Python. I actually did set, uh I don't want to say a resolution but a goal for the year um to, I don't want to say to learn C# because I played with C# I, I supported C# like in tech ops many years ago for a long time. So, but I it's been, it's been a decade since I've written C# and Anger. And so I'm like, OK, and that's definitely something that on our team we could use more. We've got some, you know, folks on our team who are great at Python and stuff. So we don't really need to fill the gap, but I need to know a little bit more. So that being said, like we're talking about code. Do they have C# stuff? Yeah, I mean, I learned it actually perfect. So like, yeah, absolutely. So their catalog has um tons of stuff and it's not just individual languages. Uh Like this is the other languages they have, they have tons. Tons. But they also have totally do that subject. But yeah, like I think my C# is actually complete on here. Oh, look at you. Yeah, learn C# completed. I got a certificate and everything and uh when is the last time I did it? I don't know. Um But what I do like is you can reset your progress. So like, let's say you totally forgot. You're like, I'm just gonna start over again. Boo reset it, start over. Oh Inheritances, link, link, I oh man, I remember link. Yeah, man. It's, I mean, I don't remember how to do it but yeah, I recall that term. Yeah, that's for sure. OK. So I may do OK. So I may do this with C# and I don't know if I'll do it on Pulumi Vision. I, I would love to be able to read like take over the Pulumi livestream just for my learning. I might do it on my uh personal Twitch which is uh the matt threat. Um So anyway, yeah, so he goes like, all right. So Python, yes. Listen, I know 8% of Python that's 8% of all of Python. And the next lesson is control flow. Like the next one is like if then statements, I'm pretty sure this bulls, that's where we're at. This is actually what I like about co academy and they're not sponsoring me, but they totally should because right now I am not. You listen to Code Academy. Um, some local barbecue place sponsor me for sure. Sponsor me. How do you, that the Venn diagram of those three things overlapping is PJ Maxx. I wonder if there's a barbecue flavored Mountain Dew. There's, listen, I did on the 100th day that I was begging Mountain Dew for a sponsorship. I did a, a Twitch Stream where I talked about the history of Mountain Dew and they have had a lot of weird flavors. Even just this past holiday season. You may have seen Gingerbread Mountain Dew at your local store and I don't approve of that at all. Yeah, that seems, that seems like violence at all. I don't approve. Um, but I guess like, so like I, I honestly like, I don't know anything about Python to show you what I did yesterday. Ok. That's what I would like to know. Yeah. What, what, let's do that. So let me um let me go back. Uh Let's go back. You got introduced to control flow. Yeah, so like that's the human control flow. Like go way back, we go way back. We're buddies. So yesterday was my Hello world. Um And what it does is it takes you through a bunch of like really basic stuff, like really important basic stuff and if I click back a million times, um it was like, this is a string and it's good because like, for someone who's totally brand new to coding and literally has never done anything before. It's, it's important to learn these basic ideas early and know literally like what is an error? What is a variable? Because if you just teach it, assuming that someone knows, then they're gonna get lost, they're gonna give up and they're not gonna wanna do it. So like yesterday, I did things like learn how to do a comment which it's, it's a hashtag or a pound sign or an ad. Uh Is that what it's called too? I'm so used to that, that this was actually really important for me to learn because commenting pieces of code out in order to make the code run is my favorite pastime. So I'm glad they got to it early on. Uh the way I do that is commenting out all of my code and then it runs perfectly. That's right. Everything is er I have a, yeah, it's like I have a script that just says comment out anything that I wrote in this code base and then you ship that and it's perfect. Um But yeah, like I just, I went through and learned like print which is the console log of the Python world uh variables. Of course, um how to read errors, which this one I thought was interesting. There's a name error instead of just being like we don't know what that is. It's a specific name error in Python. Um when it sees a word it does not recognize. So if you've got a variable in there but it doesn't actually exist, you get a name error. And so it says, hey, that's not defined anywhere. Uh, but I can fix that by defining it first. So, like I'm, so I'm actually, I'm really starting to enjoy Python and I, I, uh, I got a little further in this before. Um, like I started learning Python and then stopped, but now I've restarted again but I, I literally forgot everything bef from before. So this still works. The thing that really tripped me up is in Python. It's all just indented. Yeah, that I have, that's what messes with me is like the, the white space is how you do stuff. It's I have a hard time. Yes. Yes, it does. It does uh blow my mind and it does get a little hard um calculations automatically like in line multiplying dividing all that stuff. You can also straight up ad uh and there's like modular and stuff like that. You can add text together and I don't know if you can do this in other languages. You just string. It depends and like it's annoying because it's inconsistent. Like you'll think you can do it and then it's like, no, because it's not a string, you have to, it, you know, and you're like, you should be able to, that has to do with it being dynamic or statically typed I think is a big part of that. Yeah. Look at me using words. Um Listen, these are words. I don't fully understand myself. So I'm glad you said it. Uh So we did get a question in the chat. Uh Just if we wanna go for it. So wire static says, should we just like YOLO this and just like try to write a Discord bot and um yeah, you're on it right. There's a and I'll give you a, there's a, also a link. Um OK. There's a simple box but I think, yeah, the buzz crate one. Yeah. Is that, what is we throw that over here? So a Discord Python bot. Yeah, let's try it, you know. OK. So let's see because you, I mean, tell us about because you've done some, some bot collabs I know with like, yeah. Yeah. And like, um and actually this is my, my personal git lab here and uh all of my bots, like I said before, written a note, I'm more familiar with Twitter bots. And what I'm using is um Twit which is a um, let me see. Twit is a currently, I believe, deprecated API client for node. And I think I saw a thing where I was like, hey guys, this is deprecated. Be careful pi doesn't 00, do you mean the actual never mind? Oh Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that, that's where I'll start. I, I stupidly thought that that was a link but it actually the file. So my problem with Twitter bots now is, I don't know what happened where Twitter, like now when I try to create new Twitter accounts, it insists on a phone number and it won't let me use a phone number I've used before. So I actually, like, I had the hardest time in the world getting my Twitter account for my dog from because I was like, literally, I'm putting in a support request to Twitter. That's like she's a freaking dog. She doesn't have a phone. Like, let me so, so I've, I've had bad ideas that things I wanted to do, but I'm like, I can't create new Twitter accounts anymore. So I'm just very happy, very happy to hear. I just had a hard time getting the Twitter account for my dog up and running and the, the like the genuine like distaste in your mouth when you said it. I really appreciate that. That's good energy for 2022. Um Yeah. No, it is kind of hard getting your Twitter developer account up and running. Um Well, no, it's not even the Twitter developer account, but it's a new Twitter account. Oh, I don't like, like let's say we doing it. Well, wait, how are you? Well, who's, where are your bots tweeting from? They, they each have their own account. That's what I mean. Yeah, it's, I think I've created so many Twitter accounts using my phone number that Twitter's like, well, go screw yourself. Maddie. You can't use that phone number anymore. And they also don't let you use the Google voice number anymore. It could, it can detect that that number. Oh, my God, it's such a mess. Oh, but I just, I just realized my two sons just got phones. Guess what? That's, that's at least six new Twitter accounts that you can make. Well, I was gonna say, because I was thinking we could do a Python Twitter bot. But then I went thinking about how hard it is to get that going. That maybe a Discord one is, is better. Well, I will say I, I am a, I'm learning Python because I aim to remake these bots in Python because I know Twit's deprecated. But what I was getting at is like, I don't think that in the time of this stream, like all the set up work to be able to have the bot in Twitter would get done because you have to go through, you have to get it authorized and all that stuff. So that's why maybe the Discord is the, I mean, actually, I could, we could use one of my existing accounts and we can start trying to make like, I mean, like my Bone Thug uh Twitter account which all it does is tweet on the first of the month. That's it. And all it tweets is the video, the music video for first of the month by Bone Thugs and Harmony uh Bach Thugs. Let's see if I can find it. But like that thought was something I made because I really wanted to have. Yeah, the first of the month. So if it's the first of the month, it says it's the first of the month and puts out that music video. Um So this one's really straightforward, like if you look at the code for it, it's only 31 lines. Um So we could try writing this in Python and the account already exists. I just have to snag the keys which I think I know where to get. So I would do it without sharing my screen because I did that a lot when I first started. But let's um listen. Uh let me go back and show off that thing that uh that wire static showed us. Yeah. So this is for a Discord bot which is another thing I'm gonna be learning to do. We got a bunch of imports up top, get your token, see a get latest us. Oh So this is like a COVID-19 based spot that like takes stuff from the COVID tracking API page, retrieves positive numbers, hospitalized and deaths and then returns. See like reading this. I'm like, OK, like, like because I know other languages reading this, I can like read it kind of straightforwardly, which is nice but this is complicated. Yeah. Wire static. I look at that, that, that link on real Python dot com. I feel like I had stumbled on that one, that one I think might be pretty good here. PJ, I'm gonna, in case you, I put it in the private chat for you. No, no, I didn't. I just sent you the Twitch Chat again. Here we go. That's what I meant to send you. Ok. Yeah. Sorry. Uh, clipboard problem there. So maybe I have clipboard problems all the time. Yeah. So, like it looks like, ok, so if we're kind of taking a look at it, right? And if you're, if you're hanging out like what we're looking at, um it's ok. So at the end of this article, you'll learn what Discord is and why it's so valuable, I think we can skip that part. What is a bot? Yeah, we get that. So like they t shirts for people, right? Yes. For real. For real. Um You have to go to Discord. Oh, you have to go to the developer portal. Hopefully there's not a lot of, have you done anything in Discord yet? I have not done a thing in this. I think I know I have an account but I haven't done a thing with it. I do have a Discord server. We can fuss around with, I have many but we could use the Dev ops party games, Discord server if we wanna, I'm leaning towards doing it on that Twitter account because like, I think it would be easier. No, I'm with you. All right. That's cool. So let's, let's look up. Uh I'm gonna keep my git lab open. Let's look up, do, do, do, do, do Twitter dot Python. All right. So, so Sweepy. Yeah. Tweeps the, the rapper I wanted to. OK. Perfect. OK. So hello Sweepy. So you import it, you authenticate. All right. I'll be hiding those as best as I can create the API object and then create a tweet. Wow, that looks really simple. Looks really straightforward. OK? Cool. Well, you're starting to get this set a little bit. We will take a little, well, I assume you're gonna have to get your repo set up and stuff like that as, as we already pointed out, you know. Oh Yeah, of course. Yeah. You know, use your environment variables for your tokens. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um All the good stuff, all the good stuff. So like, so the story of the Sloppy Joe's like where this came from a little bit. So a few days ago maybe it was like, yeah, two days ago, like my friend was, she was at the grocery store and I don't even remember why, but she's like, she's like, I feel like she's like, should I buy a can of Sloppy Joe's? And I was like, yes, you, yes, you absolutely should. Like, I even thought about it. I was like, are you buying Manwich? She's like, it is freaking manwich. Yes. That is what it's gotta be. Manwich. Yeah. Right. So, so a little bit of the back story. So she had, last night, she, she went out maybe a little, little bit, little bit, ended up in kind of an after hours bar just put it this way. I ended up waking up on the couch, uh texting me to ask if I could call her phone because she didn't know where her phone was. Right. You know, I mean, I mean, so we're fair, like, from I messages, it wasn't like texting the phone was in her hand or anything, right? And then, and then she's like, she's like, I kind of feel like making sloppy Joe's and then she's like, is it OK to like make sloppy Joe's at 10 a.m. or 10:30 a.m. Because that's what it was. And I was like, let me ask Twitter, right? So I tweeted and I was like, really actually asking for a friend and I got lots of responses and it kind of was blowing her mind because I was like, I was like, oh, I'm like 1000 people have seen this tweet and she's like in the last five minutes. I'm like, yeah, she's like, oh, that's a good thing. I mean, um so the fun fact is then she actually did make the Sloppy Joes and I did tweet a follow up with the photos. Um one of the most uh actually iii I text her a little bit right before this, that the tweet had been viewed 4500 times and I got that, like, big eyes wash emoji from her, you know. So, but it sounds like sloppy Joe's is a little, like, it kind of kicks something off in pjs brain. Like there's a story. Yeah. So, uh, my wife's family is from Kentucky, like northern Kentucky, like, right near Ohio basically. And I was hanging out with her family and I, uh, I got really excited because we were going over to her aunt's place for dinner and she was like, oh, we're having barbecue tonight. And I was like, oh, heck, yes, I love barbecue. So all day long, I was like, we're having barbecue and I was like, singing goofy songs about it. And then we got there and they were like, ok, let's eat. And like, they opened up a slow cooker and it was just sloppy Joe. And I, like, looked at my wife and I was like, what is happening? She's like, I don't know, I don't know. And so later on I was like, baby, I need you to tell me why they called Sloppy Joe's barbecue. And she was like, I don't know what the deal is. I don't know what's going on. This was like three years ago, last week, we remembered it again and she goes, oh, I asked about the sloppy Joe barbecue thing. Apparently, my wife's like, great grandmother was in like a church group and they made like AAA cookbook as a church group, everyone contributed a recipe and her great grandmother's contribution to the recipe book was a recipe called Barbecue and it was ground beef. A couple of vegetables, zero seasoning and then you poured barbecue sauce on it. And that was the whole recipe. I, I will say as a, as a midwesterner, I feel like at least at school, there have been times that they had what they would call barbecue sandwiches and it was definitely sloppy joe, like with barbecue sauce instead of like sloppy Joe sauce. But that what is acceptable in the suburbs of Chicago versus what is acceptable in other parts of the country is, of course, you know, uh there's a lot that's acceptable in, in Chicago that is not acceptable elsewhere. Yeah. All right. So I'm just gonna use, um, just get labs web ID E for this. I created the file bot dot pi. Can you uh bump up your uh yes, just a little bit maybe. Yeah, it looks right. Good job. There we go. Now, we can see. Um, back to this tutorial. Let's see. So we have to import Sweepy uh put our authentication which we can, um put in variables here and we can make those accessible from elsewhere. Um And I can get these for keys. I don't actually have to go to the um because when you're on Twitter developer site, you get them once and they don't let you get them again. But I've got them in another place so I can grab them. Can you um hey PJ, can you share your uh Yeah, and it's in if you put it in the Yeah, I was gonna say, and I'll put that Yeah, that way it'll go to both uh Twitch and, and the youtube's. There you go. Create an object and then create a tweet. OK. So OK, Twitter api we can do that tweety open source. We love it. Installing. OK? A Pyon Python package, a Pyon Python package manager. So we'll use virtual m to avoid depending on system wide packages. So in the show, we can do this stuff, right? And so the best thing I've learned or VN, but I never understood. I'm trying to uh remember but like, yeah, right. So just like it said, so when you go to use PP to install that package instead of it's sort of like the inverse like pip by default acts like N PM, install dash G, right? Where it'll install everywhere, but you don't want that, right? You wanna, so if it's an event, it's like saying, don't use your system packages, use the ones that are local into here. So that's why you do that. Um You know, you create that V and then you're gonna a and then you see in a minute you're gonna activate, you're gonna run the activate, which is basically saying like use this virtual environment. OK? And then you can actually install Tweety after that. So cool. No, this is also, yeah, like I said, it, it set, he says, you know, what, what that does is sets the path to local. So instead of using your system path. And so it's essentially saying Python, you know, a local copy of Python versus your quote global copy of Python and then pile it fall into there. I'm gonna let you all know right now. I don't have Python on my computer. It's not there yet. I haven't done it yet. So. Ok. Well, that's, yeah, it's probably step one if you're running this in the shell and not in. Yeah. Yeah. If you're running it in your shell, yeah, you're gonna definitely have to. All right. So I'm working in this web ID E oh Thank you very much. Uh Mitch. Yeah. The, the link we put was to your, within your ID E link. Oh Cool. And, but there's the actual, there's the actual uh just all that stuff. If you wanted to start, if people wanna, if people wanna start adding stuff to it, merge requests are accepted. Make my for me right in this, in this case when we're saying Merger Quest accepted, it's not the Os S version of that's Os S for bless your heart. Yeah. Merge request for bless your heart. And if you don't know what Bless your heart is Southern for it. Um Then you can go find out. That's right. All right. I think, I, I think I want to try and pull this locally to do the work because I think so because I don't, I don't know how you're gonna get because I don't know enough about how the git lab ID works that if you'll be able to, it's, it's good and it's great. And then we also have git pod that we can use, which I love, I love get pod. So, but I think it do it while you're doing that because it'll take a second fun Get Pod story. And I love, I love all the Get Potters. But so um they reach out because we use git pod for uh teaching workshops at Pulumi because you don't have to worry about getting stuff installed. You know, it's, it's, it's good, easy, easy stuff. And so there was AAA blog post that they, that was on G pod that was about um you know, the uh using the um using it for workshops that kind of quoted me and uh you know, Lee Briggs did this and all stuff and then, and then, you know, they're like, hey, we want to send you like some swag as a thank you. Like, what's your address? And I was like, oh cool. And then the this box comes and I'm sure what happened was the request went in and it probably went to whoever film it and then they basically shipped probably the booth stuff. So it was like, 10 pairs of git pod socks, like 12 webcam covers 50 to 100 git pod stickers. And I mean, I love G pot but it was a lot. But then I was at Devo Station, Houston and I was doing a workshop using git pod. I'm like, well, this is perfect. I can give git pod swag away as well as, uh, you know. Um, yeah. And then DNS is telling us to use, uh to use Git pod, but like, I don't know. Yeah, we'll see. Apparently Python is installed. I just realize I, I used the Python three command and Oh, well. Oh, well, Python is, it's on your, it's, I think Python is installed on OS X. Oh, all right. Fantastic. Well, there it is. Ok. So next we need to install the twe B package. So go ahead. I need to go see what my dog is doing. So you do that? Um Terrifying. I'm alone. Yeah. You, you got it. I have faith in you. Yeah. Yeah. Then pip install Tweety. Do it. I dare you. And then it, it's slowly, it's making its way, it's doing it. It's downloading it. I feel like a hacker every time I'm in the terminal, I feel like a hacker. I feel absolutely amazing every time uh upgrading via All right. Yeah, I mean, see you to upgrade pitch. Let's upgrade it. Pip Freeze requirements dot Text and check that in. What does that mean to check that in. All right, we've got the updated pep three B is installed, create requirements. Ah Got it. It was the next instruction. Thank you. Wire static. So pep Freeze, one of the most terrifying things in the world is following a tutorial and being like, I'm just gonna see what happens. Yeah. And then I should, I probably should have used home brew. Pip freeze is freeze like touch. All right, cool. So let's do hit commit dash M and I always forget if you use quotes in a commit message or not use quotes in a commit message. Sorry guys, it's my first day uh added some stuff. He looks at the pip and makes a list. Yeah. If you're using, yeah, I use quotes. Oh, I didn't add, get add uh what's the add everything? Command dash A dash A dot dash a space dot A space dot Oh, wait, wait, wait. Don't, don't, don't because you've got Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Because you don't have a get ignored. That'll probably take out your Oh, yeah. Oh, I don't have to get ignored in here, do I? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like normally that would be OK. But you don't want, yeah, like, like why you don't want to add the bit? Like there's a bunch of shit in there. Why static is like at his computer? Like, no, don't. All right. So I need to make a get ignore um simplest way to do that uh you could just do touch that get ignore. Ok. So that should be there now, right? Yeah and then so yeah at first you wanna block the um yeah the the virtual and your so first block everything and get ignored. Yeah, so all right, walk me through it. I'm brand new. Yeah, I'm gonna, I'm gonna get you there, I'm gonna get you there. So let's see. Uh DNS meet you screaming silently. Yeah, it's alright. I appreciate the fire statics like I walked away from A F two in order to come to this stream. Yeah, that's totally the it's the way to do it. I am so used to like for every other like Twitter bot that I've ever made. I'm so used to just taking like my get ignore from another and just sort of dropping it because it was no and I was like I just need to block the same thing so I was just copying and pasting the same thing. So you basically so yeah you probably wanna, so let me let me just look back at what you've got. Oh well you don't have it committed right now. So what's your do A do an L si just want to see your director I wanna see what you have just the read me bo dot pi and then requirements. Oh do an LS dash A because oh you've got the Yeah. Ok. So what you just want to put all you need to put in your uh the top line of your Get is just with a forward slash. Ok. So to edit the Gign, I need to get into, what is it called? Vim? Vim. Yep, you could do Vim. So do Vim space dot G Ior. Ok. Is that dot Get ignore or get? I can't, I just wanna make sure you got that right? Ok. Perfect. So now type I for insert and then Venv forward slash. Ok cool. Now hit escape and then hit colon W and I know there's a better way to do this but we're going slow. Yep. Now hit colon Q for quit done. Ok. Now if you do your get I think I got this right. Yeah, because wait, what was all in there now was just your really we, I guess we should just add, I mean you can requirements dot Text the read me. Yeah, you can read me already there. Oh the read me is in your Yeah. Ok. You just need to add the, yeah, we just need to add. That's fair. That's fair. Now we're playing Exit them. Yeah, it's, you know we're, we're getting there, we're getting all our stuff done. Yeah. So you could just do get ad requirements and you should be able to autocomplete that too. If you have tab now it should work out. Cool. Now do your so and if you wanted to be sure you can always do a get status and that'll let you know where you're at. Right? Says cool. Uh, you probably want to add your get ignore. Yep. Yep. There we go. WQ Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I was, I was, you know, 11111 step at a time. But yes, you could do a WQ and then you can do it and we're on commit dash M and it's gonna be adding some stuff because I'm really good at commit messages. Yeah. You've seen the XK CD where like throughout the project it is like as you're trying to solve a problem, your commit messages become more and more undecipherable strings. I don't, I don't care. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yes. Colon, colon X accomplishes the same thing as Colon WQ which is save and, and exit for sure. Commit and mhm. Yes. So here. All right. It's pushed. Um Now we're here. We got a get ignore, we got our Python bots. We need to go back to the tutorial stall twe we've got a requirements. Uh Next is Twitter api authentication credentials. So you have those, but you already have those. I got them in a very secret location. So I'm gonna, let's see what am I gonna do because in note, I just make a dot ENV file on my local and then you can have them saved as variables in git lab. Yep, I'll do that. Let's do that. Let me know if you need me to, oh, it won't show anything. It'll show the name of the variable but not its value. Right? Like where you're at now? Well, actually that would be AC I CD script. So I'm not gonna use them in C I CD. I want them available to the whole project which I think you need to set them again. So you might want me to, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna pull it off screen when I'm, when it's time trying to find a place where I would actually GSM if I need it for just the whole project, access, disabled, email merge request. Oh, he's talking about Vin though. We're a little, it's a little like uh not get with the program because I know like if I like when I'm using it in the C I CD, that's where I'm gonna put it because like I have like uh I use Hiro for my other bots and that's what I'm gonna do eventually. I'm just gonna add this to my hero. Oh, well, so that's the thing. So that's where it'll go, right? Because you need, you're not building it. But um so actually if I'm deploying to Hiro, I already have variables in Hiro for you. So you just won't be able, yeah, so you should be able to just call them as, as environment variables in your, in your script or in your, your, your Python program in the Python program. So let me just, so won't run locally for you. Although you could create an end file or that's what I do. But I don't usually run these locally anyway. I'm gonna need to run this one locally to, to make sure it actually works. It actually works. So, but, um, yeah, let me add a dot ENV file. I'm guessing I need to install dot Enb as well at some point. Is there a version of it for? Um, Let me so well. So if I, I'm, I'm calling out my colleague, Nina, she's very Python, Python Python. Um What's the, what's the most Python way of local environment variables? OK. I'll just say Laura, sorry. Twitch. It is Twitch etiquette to only use the name of the Yes. Yes. Although it's, it's very, but it's a, it's also a running gag that I can never pronounce Laura's handle. Um And I try, I do try, I'd say Nina, no, Nina. No, exactly when he butchers my handle every time. Yeah, I've joined this club now too. I'm very sorry. So close, so close, so close, so close. Nimbus NMB. That's I think I like that one because it sounds very like uh this is my question, Greek and Power. Oh The Python question, what's, what's a Python way for like a local uh like the equivalent of like dot Env, right? Like you want to put this uh a key um that will only run when it's run locally and then that you would you know, look in there instead of putting it in like an environment variable on the machine. Yeah, especially in a event. Oh, got it. Ok, got it. Ok. So now, but you definitely wanna. Yeah. Ok, cool. So you, I think you have to install a package. It sounds like it'll just work right? Like it'll I was doing it with node. You have to, you have to do an M PM for dot N No, you have to do an M PM to like, you know, have carriage returns exist. Oh Import OS. Ok. Got it. Oh, is that what? Yeah, you need the, you need the O package. Yeah, so just make sure that you're um ok. Good. Yeah. Ok. And then I need dot And you also need to not have this on the screen share when you're putting those right there. Thank you for the reminder. Um So yeah, let me pull this off screen real quick and minimize that and let me pull this off screen. What's behind there so I can grab them from Hiroko so much hiding. It's listen, this is, it's way better than like the one time I was streaming with Chloe and Adrian Howard and I think three times of the stream I showed our key, I was just constantly showing off my key. It was ridiculous. All right, let's go to my authorization app. My two factor authorization for Heroku is a good idea because everyone's trying to get into my Twitter bot. So clever. OK. You also have a, by the way, um uh So wire static through a merge request uh with an improved get ignored for you as well. Wow. Very nice. Let me collaboratively. We social coding. Listen, community coding. I'm with it. Yeah. It's like, it's like uh it's like pair coding but uh with a lot of people all at once. So it's very, it's called mob mobbing, I think is a different thing. Mobbing. Yeah. Um OK. And DS D DNS M gave you a link to for uh when you get to the point of uh looking for that token of how you'll pull it from uh from Os. But you know. All right. And now I need to remember. Oh OK. So, yeah, so again for people that are joining us in the middle LA, what is he doing? Yeah. So what we, what we decided to do. So PJ has a bunch of Twitter bots that are written in node and one of the problems is they are depending upon a, uh an, an N PM package that's deprecated. And also PJ wanted to learn Python. So we decided like, let's try to take one of uh one of his Twitter bots and try to make it happen in Python. Um Is what we're kind of doing here and, yeah, that's now you're, now you're caught up. Um And now, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Ok. I've got 204. At least I think what's gonna be funny is if at the end we go to run this and, like, bought tweets or something. Right. Oh, that you use the wrong cred. Yeah. Like I use the wrong cred. Well, we're testing in production. Everyone's always testing in production. The difference is sometimes, you know, you're doing it. They do say that that's the best way to know what's going on. Right. Yeah. Just throw it in production and see what happens. See who and safe and dot Enb file is gone. Don't let me click on it again and let's go what you'll have. I don't stop. I don't, I don't know how I'm gonna do that but OK. Is that it's like in a what is it hook where he's like, don't try and stop me, me, stop me, me. All right. And we should be good. Let me check out that uh that Mr real quick it'll save you from as you add some more stuff. Probably. So it's probably worth it. Let me find bot thugs, Python bot and I'm seeing three commits. Then I'm seeing where's my merger quest? Um Did you assign it to me or? Oh, it's, it's, it's a click. I have to click it from the chat. Yeah. Yeah. To the, to the there is see, OK. Right. Guys, first day he's saving me from later pain and like they say, uh just accept any marriage request that you get from random people online. Uh Totally safe. Totally fine. Um Thank you very much for the merger quest. I appreciate that. That's the first merger quest on my personal uh git lab that I've ever done from an outside. You should get a uh you know, like somebody got an achievement for that, a badge. I feel like I should, I should give it to uh the person who did. Yeah. Wire static. I met, I met you in person but even so shouldn't like just accept a merger request, they should have checked it. Um But I feel like I feel like wire static should get the, the thing. He's technically my MVP now. Yeah. All right. Uh We are uh in the Python code. I'm not allowed to click on that. Um So don't let me OK. It's gonna be, it's gonna be so hard for you to not now like I'm like, I'm destined to do it now. Um Yeah, that's right next to a testing for sure. Um All right. So that's the Discord, but we need to get out of there. This is the Discord bot. Um I gotta find my window because I've got like 30 windows open now. And are you the window? Yes. So there's the merge. Here's the thing. So I've got all that set up. I have a Twitter developer account also. Hey, congratulations to Anton Babenco, who I believe was our 100th follower on Twitch. Nice. So I don't even know if they're still in the chat, but you know, we're still on the stream. But yeah, I just saw that we had 100 followers and the most recent follower was Anton. So that's exciting. Oh, we love a good amount of followers. OK? Uh Keys and tokens. I have those. Oh OK. Here we go. Here we go authenticate this person. Just put them directly into the file. We're gonna be doing that. Yeah. Yeah, but we do need to um have what they showed us up here at the top. This we need this to authenticate. OK? So let's go here. Yeah. And oh there was something else I needed to do here to import Tweety. Okey doke. So we've got these pulling from dot M. So I need to, I can't just pull those because they're not variables inside this. I need to let it know that it's from dot N. That's where that. So do you see what wire static just said. So if you use that Os dot Get N and then name A R that will return that. OK. Perfect. So oh but you also before you run the program. OK? Cool. Yeah, you need to source. OK. So if you source dot end that will basically load them as environment variables just you don't have to have them like in your bash profile or whatever. So before you run the pro and again, you're not gonna have to do this when it's running a, because they are environment variables. Exactly. Yeah. Ok. So, before we run it we'll need to, should I just do that now on the committee? No, no, no, because they're not. They're not. Oh, I guess you could. Yeah, then there's, there, let's go ahead and change these first. You said first. So, Os dot Get N, and then consumer key and those are currently like that and I want them because I don't want him as strings and I start getting um I'm doing it the real slow way and I'm about to get so much faster. Um What? Hang on. Oh, pop your font up a little bit because it is a little. Yeah, you may. OK. Wait wwww OK. Um oh you still have that second one as a string? Oh, there it is. It blows my mind that uh the um the variables don't get like a special little color or anything. Oh, you don't have, well, you don't uh Yeah, you should, I don't know why you're not getting like uh formatting. OK. A access token should be a string. Oh, so the OK. Oh, ok. Got it. Got it. Got it. Yeah, so you need to put consumer key in the string. So are you OK. So fun. Fun to, I don't know if you know how to do this or not. OK. OK. You go. No, you stop undo undo. I'm gonna show you a trick trick. OK. Select consumer key. Now do now just do a quote, shift, quote, just tape it. There you go. Oh, that'll work with Perez and braces too, by the way. Amazing. Yeah. Single quote strings. OK. So un undo all that, do the exact thought. I thought it was either in, in this particular case, uh not Python people, why either works but Oh OK. Yes, it is more Python to make it single, listen more. I Yeah. Pep and that is OK. So for, for reference, so wire static said pep eight says to do single and then Laura has reminded us of pep eight is the uh style guide. Laura. What is the Zen of Python? Is it like pearl? Which means there's more than one way to do it? OK. All right cool. So you've got that. So if you were to, well, you have to save but nothing's gonna happen now. But yeah. OK. Import this in your Python terminal. Oh Got it. Do that. I feel like I shouldn't. No, I'm sure it's fine. Open, you know, open a terminal in in VS code, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I've got my my no, no, do it. No, no, no but it needs to. OK. But if you do it there, we can see it or just or just go back to the terminal like you had it like this one. Yeah. And then type in import space this I trust Laura for sure. And then OK. Got it. Hit the enter. OK. No. Uh oh Python dash c important. No, this is amazing that the fighting Morris says, oh, wait, OK. So wait, try just typing, wait, I'm gonna 000 got it. Clear this out, clear this out command C or control C I know what Laura's trying to do. OK? Don't do, don't do this. Just type Python, just type Python and that's gonna open the Python interpreter. I import this and then I get the OK. Now import this. I see it, Laura, it's fine. There's a delay in Twitch and if this shows off something bad, no, it's, this is the set of Python. Got it. Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules and that's why I'm not allowed at Applebee's anymore. All right, I think now is better than never. Oh That's cool. Mhm. And now get me out. All right. Um Exit. Let me out. OK. Done. Cool. OK. Everywhere. Yeah. All right. So, so we've set an environment variable. We are going back to the uh Twitter bot and Python. So we've got authenticate Twitter uh API S we get the API, right, I assume makes an object. Yep API object and then a tweet api dot update status, api dot update status and you pass that the value you want for the tweet and then just say what we want. OK. This is just gonna see if this actually runs. Uh But we still have to do that other thing. Yeah. Yeah. So go back to your, well, do whatever you like, give it, like, write your string. Yep. And save the file, right? And then now go back to your terminal. Mhm. You, you, you won't, you won't, it'll, it'll be safe to do this. And now, uh just, yeah, just source dot Env. Yep. Yep. Ok. So, now if you do, what is it, if you run Python and then you know Bott dot Pie, right? Is that how you do it? But so yeah, just like node. Yep. All right. Do this over here in case it tries to flash my Yeah. Yeah, that's fair. All right. Uh You're not echoing anything but yeah. What's the, what's the Twitter account? This is, this is OK. This is uh the bomb bugs and harmony consumer key must be a stringer bite, not whatever. OK. So that was Laura actually mentioned that when she was like, yeah, you need to set it to, you need to get it to to be a string. Mhm Her, her. Yep. Yep. Yep. So I should, I should show my my dot emv file now, do not do that. OK. We know not to do that. So I love learning like this. All right. So OK. Yeah. Print and don't do that. All right. So Laura, you did mention that we have to turn the, the you know the Yeah, you said what? We're what we're doing to get at him because it's not a string. Um, so how do we, like Stringify and in Python? Oh, strang, I'm looking for, uh, actually I think it's just str I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if you just, you have the whole file yet? Oh, wait, hang on a second. What, Laura, what do you mean we haven't loaded? You mean the environment file? He sourced it? So it should be in. I did uh right here. Yeah. So what you could do if you want to, but I would 100% do it off screen is just echo that environment variable name and make sure that it's returning. Actually. That's a really good idea. Um Let me do that real quick. Ok. Uh Let's do, we did source dot Env but I wanna make sure that that actually did what? Oh, it's not finding it, it's not finding the dot Env. OK. It's not finding, I echoed the variable and I can't find it. Ok. So it didn't. Oh, because you're in the maybe no, that shouldn't matter. No, because that's just the source command. Ok. So Laura thinks you need the dot And package. But why would source dot N source that? Oh, because your end file didn't set the. Ok. Uh This is the hard part also because you can't see it. Yeah, because you can't see it. Um ok. Well, let's try, let's try Laura's idea with dot end. Ok. So getting in the terminal? Ok. So you want to? Ok. So you're gonna do import, so we're already in the van? Oh, you hadn't imported Sweepy either. Import twe at the top of the line too? Oh, ok. Why were you? Ok. I was trying to figure out what it looked like. You typed it again. Yeah, I've got the, the, so if you do a pip, but you need to install it before you go back to your terminal, right? Which is the same way you did the twe right? So you're just gonna do pip install or is it? Yeah, and then it's Python dash dot N for what it's worth. This is where we're at. Yep. No, no, Python. No, it's all what the name of the package is. Python dash dot N. Thank you. Ok. This look good to everybody. Yep. And you don't need um to import the whole thing. So you can, you know that part was fine, go back to your import but instead of um um let's see, I'm saying you want to, ok, done and if you want to use them, let's see um from uh pass configure load and ok, hang on. You want to. Yeah, that's what that's what I was looking for. Laura. So do like I just wanted to make sure that was right. So do this do from dot And import load because that's all you need. You don't need the whole package. You just need to, to load, just do the lo dot At VM. And then do you not have to run anything? 00, gotcha. Then you have to, ok. You need to add, then you need to add one more thing. You need to do this load, you know, add the command like that, that's fine. And then before you do anything, there's just a one liner which is load underscore dot N you know, print and I would put a line, a line break between three and four, they're separate. So that should then load them. Ok. Ok. Give that a save and then go ahead and try to run it and I'm sorry, what am I saying? Wrong. Laura Lime got carriage return. Is that oh the lint? Oh, ok. Ok. All right. So go ahead and yeah. Ok. Eight consumer key must. Ok. So it's still, you still do. But, but now, ok, so now we need to turn them into strings, right? Yeah, because I think that's your problem. Do I do the entire Os dot Get end inside of string? Yep. Yep. Yep. Because it's, it's getting its value of that and you should be able to take that whole. Ok. Wait, see the fun. Oh Use an F string. Ok. F string. Oh OK. So like it's, it's like it's like like it's like string if and go which didn't help you. Um But yeah, OK, here you go. Like do like this. So you're gonna do. So instead of the string. So what you do like, but do we need, do we need a, an after we're not formatting the string, we just need the whole thing. We just need, it turned into a string. But I see what they mean. No, no, you don't have to do those stirs. Get, get rid of all that stuff you're doing. There's a better way to do. I was like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ok. So like, so if you were to uh so right before Os get in, so type in f and then put the whole Os get end into, you know, that whole thing, then the par like select from there to the end, make that a double string, like a double quote. OK. And then now surround everything with curly braces like that just hit, just hit left curly right now. Yeah. Yeah. Does that look right? Python folks? Did I miss something? Did we do it? Well, go ahead and try that on the other ones. Yes. OK. Good. Ok. So it goes f selected 00 Laura Laura's got an easier, that's why she wanted you to do it that way Tweet because see what you're able to do because you want because no, because the whole thing would have been a string normally. So that lets you, OK, you see how you see how, how she's doing that. So that, that way you don't have to do each one. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. I see. I get you, I get you. I got you. Sweepy 0.0 off Handler Colon F and then double quote, Os second F. Ok. So then just the other Os should just be in curly curly. Yep. Yep. Yep. Because it's just basically, so it's gonna put, it's gonna give you, it's gonna generate a string and then you need the final closing quote. But at the end of the curly. Yeah. No, it's rec I think it's recognizing it now. Laura, now it says it just thinks it's not a string, maybe, maybe it's not recognized in the environment variable. I don't know. Save this, you didn't do the other one. But let's go try it because let's see if it gets past that error. It true. It's missing a no positional argument type error in it missing. OK? So let's go back to your code there. It's a different, er, what line, what? It's still on the same line. Yeah, but it's a different error. I want to make sure I did by dot Env variables, right? Oh, wait, Laura wants to see the OK. Laura is missing one. Well, no, no, the error. Go back to the, I'm worried, I've got my M variables and, oh, it's an error with the twe call, call. So go, go back to the, to the um. Yes. Yeah. Go back, go back to the sample code for a second. Hold up, hold up, hold up because we might have. Nope, I'm an idiot. You gave them the wrong names. Uh, so it's, it's the, it's the, it's the cases. It's the capitalization. Um, oh, it wants them to be called, um, yeah, it wants them in lower case. Yeah, I need to make sure that it's, is it all, it's all lower case? All right. All lower case. Ok. Ok. Right now it's, it's gonna work now. Working hard off screen where no one can see. I got to trust that I'm doing the work. It's like remote work. It's like you gotta trust me, trust that I'm doing it right. Don't fire me. All right. Windows s but wait, why does it care? OK. Because it also the dot Env. So in, in Bob dot Pie they were, I was gonna say, I don't think, I think, I think Laura. Right? Ok. Laura. What is it? Because if the name of the environment variable is never the name of the environment variable is not passed to twee, you should have two F strings. That's what I, well, we didn't get the second one yet. Laura? You mean in, in the? Ok. It's not one string. It should be two. OK. Hang on. Oh, that's what, OK. That's what, that's what I said in the first place like that. Right? I tried to. Yes. Yes. They're, they're two separate strings. It's not one long string with a comet. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ok. So now wait, there you go. Hold up. Give me a second, give me a second. We're just looking to see if the error goes away for those and for those. Now you should get a different kind of an error on line nine air on line 13. Perfect. Ok. Oh, perfect. Oh, that's crazy that it, it went to line 13, right? Because like now it's probably trying to do something. Oh, because it was, 00 no, that makes perfect sense because, yeah. Ok. But you probably need to fix those two as well. Thing I did it, I did it the slow way. Hold on. There we go and we go f quote curly. Right. Right. Curly. Name it, curly. Save it. Run it. All right. So we're still getting the unauthorized, which is fine. Wait, I must try to do some recursion. Hold on. All right. Hang on. I'm looking lori is fixed line 90, it says on a, oh, but it was it showing something you don't want to see it should, it should never show you. You, you should be able to show the terminal. But yeah, I, I'm pretty sure I just get nervous. No. No, I just wanted to see what it's ok. Unauthorized. Don't you need to tell it what Twitter account you're trying to or that was? Oh, no, that was already in the ok. Could not authenticate you. Uh, now did you try to? Ok. So um what I'm trying to think of your best way to make sure that it's loading. I mean, I feel like we know it's loading the environment variables. Mhm One of the things you could do if you wanted to 100% check is you could echo out the environment variable and then change it to a fake one. You could just make a new one like like no, no like in your, in your code, right? Like um just straight up. Yeah, like replace, but you didn't even have to replace, just make a new one. So like, so if you do like print to standard outright, so if you do like um so like, I don't know, do it in there, just do print and then in quotes do, do your F string, do the whole thing like you did for consumer key, in fact, copy to the consumer key string. It's gonna be OK. Put that in there OK? You got, you got too many quotes in there. Now that's what I thought you didn't, you didn't need the one before the F OK? And change it from consumer key to like name, name the the environment variable like Maddie. OK. So now that's what my name is. OK. Fine. Listen, I know, I know who I'm talking to as well. Like you said, Maddie, I was like, oh, I wonder if that's the name of someone Maddie knows and I didn't, it's cool. OK. Save that. Now off screen, go into your ENV and set an environment variable called Maddie with just some value like or something. Yeah, I just, yeah, I just, and then if you run it, you should see that and if you're not getting that, if you don't see that value come back then we know we're not loading the environment variables. Yeah. Ok. All right. Saved. Uh And then it'll print to the console. Yeah, just to the terminal when you run it. So you should what should be fine just to run. Do Yeah, it did it, it printed it first thing. OK. So, so that's, I think I'm gonna, I'm gonna double check my uh what you call it, your, the, the, the actual values of your, the actual values to make sure that those are correct that I got from that said, I think we need to kind of wind up. I'm fine with that. Yeah, I, I feel like we got a lot. We did, we got, we got, we got somewhere. So this is cool and um this was, this was a lot of fun. We'll have to have to do this more. Maybe we'll come hack on your stream and, and, and, and do on this because it was learning for me. And also, so Laura Laura's point it out too that like um you know, again, we debugged using print, using print and like to be fair. This was going super fast. There are definitely ways we could set breakpoints and environment uh info and stuff like that. Um Yeah, so there's a, there's a couple of things to just, but thanks for everybody for tuning in. Uh We kind of hang out here on, you know, if you're, if you're new and you haven't smashed that follow button on Twitch or subscribe if you're in youtube. Um I feel like we have a little bit more fun in, in Twitch. So I would love for you to follow us on Twitch. The, uh, we do this, uh, but Pulumi Vision is every Thursday at this, uh, same time and actually, uh, next week I'll be joined, we're gonna be doing some stuff with Off Zero. and, uh, the week after that I'll have Quintessence's a from Page Duty and we're just gonna be vibing just sort of like we did here today. So, uh, awesome PJ. Thanks for joining me and, uh, everybody will see you on the internet.

---
