---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Local development emulation and more | August 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
title: "Local development emulation and more | August 2022 | Mont..."
meta_desc: |
    The August 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse!
url_slug: local-development-emulation-more-august-2022-monthly-contributor-community-meeting
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Local development emulation and more | August 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
  description: |
    The August 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse! â–º  Agenda notes:  https://github.com/pulumiverse/.github â–º Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  ðŸ“‘ Chapters: 00:00 Intro and agenda 01:28 Announcements 02:00 Planned topic: Awesome List 11:14 Other topic 1: Local development emulation 15:30 Other topic 2: Structural representation of infrastructure 17:34 Closing
  sortable_date: 2022-08-17T17:55:16Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/r1N1jwqlCv8
transcript: |
    Lovely recording in progress statement that Zoom loves to do. Um Thank you all for joining us for our community meeting for August 2022. I nearly said September because I believe that the heat will eventually end in Texas. Um Just a reminder, this is the Pulumi community meeting and it is being recorded. So, uh please be mindful of what you're saying because it will be posted publicly to the internet. And on that note, uh just as another reminder, we do have a code of conduct, uh which you're welcome to go find. I believe that is linked in the agenda if it isn't. Please let me know. Um It is. So this meeting does fall underneath the Pulumi code of conduct short version, be excellent to one another. So keep that in mind as we have our discussions today. And on that note, um we can get started. This is a small meeting today, so it might be a very short recording. Uh There were some topics posted um to talk about updating and contributing to TF two Pulumi updating the awesome list and rating RFC S. Unfortunately, I don't think anyone on the call actually put those topics in. So we might just kind of briefly touch on them and save them for another meeting and then see if there's any open topics for the floor that being said, um, no major announcements that I know of. There have been a couple of releases to Pulumi itself uh for the SASS product. But from the open source side, it seems like the activity in the repos are doing fairly well if there's any issues or pr s that we really should talk about. I'd love to highlight them as we get further along in the meeting. But on that note, anybody really desperately want to talk about the TF two Pulumi or the Awesome List one or shall we save it for another session? I actually put in the awesome list one. So you did. OK. Well, now we know. So um let's, let's skip the TF two Pulumi one unless people are really excited to talk about it. Right. This very minute. No qualms for me. OK. Let's move on to the awesome list. Aaron, why don't you tell us a little bit about the awesome list and what you would like to talk about with. There's not, not much here other than um think there was a community member that originally created the um the original Awesome List. And then I, I took it over from there and just as I write the newsletter, I add in new links from time to time. But if, um, but right now it's um, a grab bag dump of all sorts of content. So I guess don't like question name. Is there stuff, one is there stuff missing and two, is there a way to organize it in a way that's even more useful. Um, that's about it. Other than like, I see a lot of articles about pulling me up there and I'll try putting it on there. But if other people see things um love for them to contribute, you made it. I just realized that because Zoom gave me that lovely banner right over my face saying, hey, you're muted. Um Could you grab a link and drop it in the Zoom Chat or in the agenda? So people know which one you're talking about? Awesome. So this is the Pulumi verse. Awesome Pulumi link. Um I will share my screen for like five seconds for the recording just so that folks can see what exactly we are looking at. Um So here it is, this is the awesome Pulumi list. So it's one of those awesome lists and it's in the Pulumi verse which we talked about last time. Um So obviously this is for everybody to contribute. But it's if you haven't ever seen an awesome list before, it's resources, books, tutorials, anything that someone puts together, but that includes tools and libraries. So if you wanna see something really awesome to go dig into Hardy, hardy Heart, I won't be too awkward. Like Sean. Have you ever seen this list before? And I turned on camera but not my mic. Here we are. Um, I have not actually taken a look at these, although I'm quite familiar with quite a few things on here. This is, uh, quite neat. Yeah. Also lists are cool. They do get unwieldy large. Um, so if there's another way, you know, people have other ideas on how we should organize, this could be good. Like right now it's a mixture of, I think cloud providers and then like content type. But, you know, as with all these things, there's probably a million different ways that you can organize it. Yeah, I'll take a read through and see if there's any better way to organize it. Um Yeah, I'll let you know once I read through that, but it does look pretty great so far. I know I've read some things that I think I'm not seeing here, so maybe just contributing as well would be a good idea. Yeah, just do a poll request. Like someone from the verse uh governance um board will probably merge it like within a day. So it should be pretty good. Yeah, the, the miscellaneous uh section is literally um it's everything so there, there's no rhyme or reason there. Um I, yeah, a good, a great question is, what is the providers section actually? Um I think a lot of these just actually all end up in the plumier anyway. But how do we build, we, we should probably build that section out bigger. There's probably stuff that exists in people's own repos that we can probably put in there. That'd be cool. Um And yeah, the library one is and pretty sure there's a lot more out there for the libraries one and for tools. Um So as people discover new things, um, make a pull request and just add it and should be, should be easy. I'm pretty sure this list could double and we can use the current format, but once it doubles, um, we'll probably need to have a wiser way of organizing. Yeah. Perhaps some sort of github pages though. I have seen frankly a huge amount of awesome list that just remained as a single read main. So, what have you ever seen the Aws? Awesome. Was, oh, I think I have that, that one is unbelievably large. My browser is just hanging while I load the page. So maybe that's why it's not loading either for me a of this awesome list. I actually think github might be having some issues today, but that's a separate story. Ah, ok. Which, which a to BS one are you loading it? Is Donna Martin. Yep. Yeah, I thought, um, who, I thought Corey Quinn. No, no. Who I'm trying to think who, who had one there? There's probably a few of these at this point. Oh, I'm sure there are. Yeah. Github is definitely having some issues. I'm looking for other awesome lists to compare the formats, but no, they're not reporting their down yet on their status page, but I'm sure they will shortly the unicorn yet. What you say the unicorn, the Github unicorn saying we're having trouble. I haven't seen that yet. Ok. Yeah. Yeah. When I looked at the uh interview was also almost a while back. It was organized by um um A W US services. So you can only imagine how immensely troubling that was. Oh, yeah, like there's like, what, what is it now, like 203 100 services. So, yeah, it was broken into sections by that. It's difficult about awesome lists in general hierarchies that currently available to service. Oh, no, no, I'm getting the unicorn. No, the unicorn picture doesn't even show. Oh, I just let it. Oh, here we go. Yeah, I'm getting that too. Um But yeah, their cluster must be having some issues. It doesn't look like a networking problem. Um I think the difficult thing is structuring it in a way that people can actually go through and get, I don't know, meaningful information um, out of it because when it's just largely structured with broad things like libraries and tools and stuff like that, well, it's small, I guess that's fine, but then it doesn't look too impressive. Um But as it gets larger, it becomes hard to read through. I don't know, trying to find a way where you can browse it in an intentional way. But at that point, just look at the docs, you know, you've got a great way to search for your blog posts and things like that. So, yeah. Well, yeah. No, I appreciate the um, appreciate you looking at it. So just let me know uh ping me on community slack if you wanna chat directly or um you know, we'll, we'll collaborate. Yeah, I'll read through it more thoroughly. You got it. What would be a good channel for that? I bet you though that now that I'm thinking about it, a simple static site, github pages like you were mentioning Sean with a simple search on it might actually make it a lot easier. We could also do collapsible sections so you can just open up the section you want. Actually you can do that on, read these, use the details, summaries tag and I do it a lot. Yeah. So that's one another way we could actually build that out. What would be a good place to uh communicate on that in Pulumi Slack. I contribute. I would do it in the contribute channel. Contributes. Probably good. You got it. Get the, get the chatty chatty going on in there. You could do that or Pulumi verse. Either one works to me for me. Oh Like I keep forgetting about the Plumy Verse channel. Kind of wanna like smush the two together. But I know they're separate. So, all right. Do we want to talk about RFC S? I don't even know what the topic was because this was from two months ago. We'll save it. We'll save it for next time. Any other topics people would like to toss out onto the floor. Maybe at some point, something like local development emulation with Pulumi. I know there's local stack and stuff like that. But we are, um, at the company that I work for doing a lot of Pulumi spinning up a lot of staging environments and we're starting to try to figure out how we can integrate um Pulumi for local development for spinning up stuff like um you know, our event bus, our queues or things like that local stack looks like an OK solution just in general, how we could do integrated developer divi environments with Pulumi and sort of have parity with what we're more or less throwing up and staging. But that's more of a broad subject. Yeah, we don't have to talk about that. Just wanted to put that out there as something that we're looking into right now. Very cool. I and would you know more about what we have in that like world and like what kind of development, open source side people could get involved in you? Um I'm not entirely sure because I miss, I'm not entirely sure I understand the use case. Um Is this spinning up local resources essentially or? Yes, exactly. So versus say, taking existing code to structure an application and changing the target rather than putting it up to AWS uh and then a way to make that viable. So currently, the way that you do it is you essentially change the URL for the providers um to point to use http locally rather than the remote end points. And that is fine. I'm just curious if that's the most ergonomic way to do this. Uh Or if there's a more ergonomic way if, for example, rather than providing the configuration for the providers directly within the YAML file, um we were to make provider objects and, you know, dynamically pass in those new end points through those provider objects versus just using the global provider when you configure it through the L if that makes sense, just I think that littering the YAML with a bunch of like point to local stack can get a little messy. Um And if anything a bit confusing, I can't think of a more ergonomic way to do it. My personal preference is to have explicit providers and pass them around. Um But I think that is a taste thing. I don't have an excellent like you should do X because X will always be better. Um Totally, it's, it's an interesting case. This is essentially, yeah. The interesting point that this brings up for me is that if you have a mix and match of explicit and default providers, it's going to be very un ideal, you'll create some resources locally and you'll create other resources in the actual cloud. And that is certainly not what you want. Um I'm not sorry. No, go on. And then potentially some variation in which you enable, I don't know, some kind of strict mode where you disallow entirely the global providers such that you can ensure that you can write something that only uses explicit providers. And if you accidentally don't pass in a provider, you throw kind of thing like that. Um So that you don't accidentally get into a situation where you forgot to pass that extra option. And then you've got a weird thing that's hard to debug that we do have actually. Awesome. And what would that be called so I can research that is an option called disabled default providers. That is exactly what you talked about. Fantastic. Thank you. And then the only other thing that I think would be interesting to discuss, um not even today at some point would be we're considering configuring a more Jason or structural representation of our infrastructure. Um What we found is some people are, we are a closure shop um largely and most people don't want to delve into the typescript. Um Pulumi and they view it a little bit as like a black hole of confusion because they feel like Pulumi is a very new company, new structure, things like that and they find it intimidating for that code to get it to. So, something we've been playing with is the idea of creating, for example, the JSON structure of how to configure services, their order of spin up and what services are actually running and then configure Pulumi through that. I know that Pulumi has a Gammel um the offering, but I don't know exactly what the details of that are for. If we wanted to have custom resources and custom dynamic providers, if that gamble would still support it or if that Yaml only supports existing resources. So that's just another thing we've been playing with. Um I can actually answer the Yaml question relatively easily, which is Yaml does not support control flow and it does to the best of my knowledge, support everything else. It talks to the engine the same way, typescript or go does it actually uses go under the hood as its method of talking to the engine? Um So if you have an arbitrary newly created custom resource that you have just built a provider for, it will work fine. If you have component resources, it will also work fine. So that is actually fully featured if you wanna do it and you can also use Jason or compile your Jason dialect into Yaml and have support for that as well. I greatly appreciate that information. I think that that's all I've got in my mental pocket at the moment. All right. Excellent. Well, if we are kind of good on the contribution stage. Um Feel free to keep talking in the contribute, the con yeah, in the contribute channel, not the contributors channel, but the contribute channel um or the Pulumi Verse channel. There's always lots of discussion there. Hopefully next month we will have more discussion. But thank you all for joining us for our second monthly community contributor meeting and I did not trip over it this time. So that's exciting. Um And hopefully, I will see you all around on the internet if you are watching this and you would like to join us next time. Join the Pulumi uh community slack and come find us in the contribute channel. Thank you so much for watching and joining us and I will see you next time. Thank you. Have a great day. Bye bye.

---
