---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - KubeCon is Coming!"
title: "PulumiVision - KubeCon is Coming!"
meta_desc: |
    Are you excited for KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2022? We sure are! Matty is joined by Paris Pittman (Kubernetes Steering Committee) to take a l...
url_slug: pulumivision-kubecon-is-coming
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - KubeCon is Coming!"
  description: |
    Are you excited for KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2022? We sure are! Matty is joined by Paris Pittman (Kubernetes Steering Committee) to take a look at the speaker lineup and other activities for the upcoming event!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-30T08:06:28Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tbl8XHR-1-o
transcript: |
    Ok, welcome to uh another episode of Pulumi Vision. Um Right now, I'm only welcoming you if you're watching this on replay because nobody's joined the stream yet. So we'll, when we see them pop in and just kind of get started. Yeah. Well, hello to uh people in the future watching this when it occurred in your past. Uh We are here today on Ploy Vision to talk about Cuban and cloud native Con Europe 2022 because I have been informed, I, as I understand we're not supposed to just call it coupon, right? Must always refer to it as coupon and cloud native Khan. But there is more to cloud native than Kubernetes wise. Uh Joining me, uh, here on Pulumi Vision is uh Paris, uh who is on the Kuti steering committee and has a long roster of uh expertise in the CNCF and in the community. Um Paris, how many coupons have you been to? Ok. We're just gonna, I'm sorry, we are gonna have to just call it coupon for the rest of this. Just pretend like auto expand it out every time I say it. But uh how many have you been to, um, I think this might be my ninth. Um, so I've been to most, except for, I think the Berlin and the first Seattle, I think, oh, someone says what is Cuban? Ok. Well, that's an interesting choice to join our, uh, you know, but that's ok. Cool. So, well, that, that's actually, yeah, what is, that's a good place, good place I need to, to, to, to start. Right. So, uh, coupon is, you know, uh yeah, coupon originated as like the Kubernetes conference. Uh And then the ecosystem flourished so much around it um As everybody knows, and now we all gather to talk about all things cloud native. Uh And it's really just full of camaraderie, showcasing um learning uh and so much more in multiple locations a year. Awesome. I'm just uh while you're doing that, I'm doing a little twitchy twitch thing. Um Trying to remember how to get into the stream manager. No, that's not what I want. Uh You know what? I'm not even into it right now. I want to get in there. So I'm gonna do right. I just wanted to, I need to check out. Um OK, cool. Anyway, fair enough. Uh Cool. So we're in there. So yeah, so we're gonna talk a little bit about uh UCAN uh Europe that's happening in Valencia in May. And did you say you've been to Spain before? I have not, I have never been to Spain and this is only my second coupon. I've never been to co Well, ok, it will only be my second in person coupon. So I participated in coupon. Eu last year. That was virtual. So, so I guess that you could say it's my third coupon. It's only my second time in, in person. And that's so that means we met at your first in person. We did. That is true. And, and it was at the very end of it too. So we just almost, almost missed it. It took the entire week, it took the entire week. Well, for busy people. Ok. Yeah, I, I thought Paris didn't like me too. So, yeah, but it's ok. So, um, so yeah, so it's happening in May in, in Valencia and Spain. But also virtually. So if you can't get yourself to Spain, uh if that's not feasible for you, you can absolutely participate virtually. And um what we're gonna do, I think what we were thinking would be fun is kind of take a look at. So there's tons and tons and tons of talks. Right. Right. So I thought it might be kind of fun to sort of spin a little bit through the schedule. I haven't looked at it super duper carefully. So there's, this will be a little bit of discovery for me. I don't know, Paris. Have you, have you dug into the schedule yet? Um, a little bit in certain areas that I'm really interested in, but definitely not others. I mean, just looking right now at the track list and I can't put leave. There's as many tracks, period. So, yeah. No, I, when I say dig in, I mean, maybe to the community track and to the maintainer track and um to other tracks that I'm deeply involved in. So I'm really looking forward to. Yeah. Yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing what you know about this too because I want to hear about some other tracks that I haven't dug into yet. So I will drop into the chat, you know, if the link, if you want to follow along, but also you'll see the um interesting uh I could not post to some channels. Um I don't know why it doesn't let me do certain things but OK, cool. Anyway, that's the link. Um For some reason it isn't letting me post this into the linkedin, but that's all right. That's cool. Um But if you are watching on the linkedin, you know what I'm talking about, you know, you can go to Pulumi slash coupon eu schedule. Um And that's what we're looking at. So it's kind of happening. So uh so first of all, so like Monday is like, it doesn't really start right away right, like the first day or two or some pre event. Yeah. Yeah, they're usually like the pre events, the get the party started the out like the offshoots of the community, the um the ecosystem players um, all kinds of learning sometimes all day tutorials and things like that. It's kind of like get, getting people up and running for the main show, um, which is, you know, obviously, uh, several tracks of talks. Um, but yeah, Monday is just getting people going and I think a lot of people come into town on Monday too. And, um, so, yeah, Monday is kind of like that get ready today. So, yeah, we see there's like a telco day a day, you know, they have security in Europe, you know, so sort of like me, I will definitely be there probably at the security one. Yeah, definitely getting security on additional registration and fee is required. Are you, are you prepared to do that? Ok. I don't want you to show up and be like, I'm Paris. Y'all let me in 10 is gonna be so good y'all. There's so many experts in this for this. So I think it's just a really important, um really important topic obviously hot on the heels of love for Jay and so many other incidents. So, um I think a lot of folks will get value out of that for sure. I'm gonna drop in the chat here in case you see it, this is the actual details about that particular part of the event. They they, you know, because again, they're sort of their own mini things. So if you want to kind of see who's actually now I'm looking like, yeah, if they've listed, said the program was gonna be listed. So, um, is there a way that you can, I don't know whatever one thing at a time? Ok, cool. Um, and then the, the, the, that's, uh, the second day is kind of the same way, right? The first two days, Monday and Tuesday are these like, pre days, right. So, I mean, Monday also does have one thing that's not listed there, which is the Cotis contributor Summit. Um We have a ton of folks on the Cotti side right now who are organizing some um something a little lighter than what we usually do. We usually put on like a three ring circus um on, I mean, honestly, it's a thing like it's un conferences, scheduled talks. I mean, we just have our own rodeo for the most part with tons of upstream maintainers. Like this is their place to gather and talk and be heard and um voice concerns and even a and accolades and awards and like everything under the sun. So, yeah, when I say three ring circus, it was definitely a three ring circus. So a fun one. Yeah, I love it. So, uh this year though, we have a ton of um of eu folks that are organizing um still like a half day plus a social. Uh If folks that are listening right now are um Kubernetes contributors, contributor Summit and Kubernetes Slack will have a ton of info for you. Um, check it out and listen up for more news. Awesome. Well, that's fun. And what do you, is there any kind of requirement to participate in that? Do you have to have a commit to Kubernetes or? It, it depends this year, um, sometimes depending on the discussion topic and things like that, given that there's 60,000 contributors, period. Um, we could, we could literally have our own, you know, like our own five days, right? So, um there's capacity constraints and things like that. So it just depends though on the content I think, I think this year it's much lighter, like I said, so, um it might be, you know, more open. Um But yeah, definitely Cot's Slack Channel. Um We can even talk about later on like how if folks want to get involved and how they can get involved but keep, keep eye on the prize for Cub Con. But so this is still Tuesday. So we're just gonna, uh I'm just sort of looking because I'm gonna need dinner to myself. So I'm, I'm gonna be there like I get in like on Saturday because I wanted to give myself a little time to, you know, get like adjusted a minute since I've done international travel, right the beach. So on the beach and then, uh, but maybe I have to see what there is to these, these, these, you know, Tuesday, you know, and uh we got a bunch of things happening. But let's go. Ok. So, but Wednesdays like this is when the real, this is the, the meat, if you will or maybe that's not included. If you don't eat meat doesn't mean about you have to eat it. But this is the core, this is the, the, well, you don't sleep on the lightning talks the night prior though. Ok. So they're, oh, I see. So they're the night before. these are, are these, uh these are just part of, if you're, if you've got a registration, you can do these, these are not separate. Exactly. Yeah. So don't sleep, don't sleep on those. There's nothing like, I mean, you know, of all people that like folks that can do a nugget in 10 minutes are, so let's take a look now because I, I'm gonna kind of be into this. All right. So we got uh oh, see already. This is, I'm, I'm intrigued because this is, this is near and dear to my heart, which is why happened instead of whodunit avoiding the term human error. Yes, absolutely. Uh We talk about Sydney Decker and safety too. So, well, I know what I am doing at uh 17 30 on that Monday. So I hope uh or no Tuesday. So that's already done. Yeah, I, well, they're all right after each other. I don't think you really duck in for one lightning talk. You kind of do them all. But I see a log for talk too. Where's the log? Of course. So I feel like that's gonna be, I feel like supply chain security and there's probably going to be even more log for J references at this event. We're gonna do that so much. Oh This is interesting too. I love that, like as a community person. So you've got uh Sam talking about running a local CNCF chapter. Um That's always interesting to me, but I think, oh, I love this beginning to maintain her, the journey of a student. So in um in and so many other projects. So these are fascinating. So, yeah, we will definitely uh I will, I will find my way to these Lightning Talks without a question. Um All right. So we do have some of these key. So some of these key notes were, oh, some of them are still TBD. OK. So watch this space. Um People have a shot, a keynote shot. So OK, so we've got, so some of these are just kind of the, these keynotes, right? Are, are really about uh what, what, what do you got? OK. So we got Priyanka just sort of opening remarks, not, not to dismiss, but like, that's just a, you know, you have to have that right? And I'm sure they'll be great. Um We don't really know what she's gonna talk about. What's that is a great public speaker too? So I'm sure it's gonna be good. Um So we've got uh we're not gonna dig into every single one. So I'm gonna kind of as I'm looking here if anything jumps out at me, but the same thing um for you Paris, if you're like, oh Alison's talk better jump out at you. Uh oh, there it is. Ok. Sorry I was I you were you. No, this is fantastic, right? So, and, and congrats to Alison for pulling this open, you know, early on keynote slot in here. That's pretty, pretty uh pretty awesome. Um And if you, you know, Allison was actually on our last episode of Pulumi Vision and there's, you know, maybe those things that we did the, we did the, we actually, it was your idea. It was, it was paris' idea we, we talked about uh and uh actually um uh Paul Jolly Dan, the one of the uh core contributors was on the street, like was in the chat. He and I are gonna like catch up in a couple of days because he's like, oh watching y'all go through it. I was taking furious notes about how to we could make this experience better for new people. So it was really fun. And I learned that rock code. Rock code is super into Q. By the way, I didn't even know. Did you know that before you told me? Oh, he loves it. It's like his favorite thing in the world. He's built so much stuff with it, which so it was super fun. So, yeah, go back. If you haven't, you didn't check that out, go uh go uh every, you know, that was fun. But anyway, so, yeah, so, OK, so, I mean, this is huge. Anybody who's doing anything with an open source project at any scale, right? Like, you can't just sort of wait for contributors to show up. So I'm fascinated to see that. Um I, yeah, Emily is a great speaker. Everybody here. This is gonna be an awesome, this is just the closing remarks. Oh, yeah. So that's just sort of winding things. Emily Fox, Fox also great Emily Fox who by the way is a new chair too. So I'm spinning up real quick uh because Paris mentioned how many tracks there are. So now granted, this is not all tracks because there's like registration which is not really a track and co located events but still or breaks. I sign up for the brakes track. Oh Literally, this is the hallway track. Oh By the way, virtual, the virtual hallway track is really fun too y'all. So virtual hallway track happens. Yeah, that happens in um CNCF Slack and a bunch of folks will get together and then, and then all of a sudden it's hundreds on a zoom hanging out. So if y'all are like, dang, I really want to go to Valencia, but I can't make it out for whatever reason which by the way might be me. Um I'll be hanging out with you virtually or on the beach if I make it out. So both. I mean, even if we, I, you know, I, I think I might, you know, have to pop into the virtual hallway track at least a little bit when we're there for sure. Connect with, with, uh, with the virtual folks. Um, but now we get into the tracks, right. So there's gonna, we, we clearly, you know, the stream is only so long we can't dig into every single one. But um we're just sort of, let's see. So things a couple of things. So uh oh, this just, I just kind of like the title of this one. as someone who gives a lot of conference talks, I'm always a sucker for like a clever title but not a too clever title, right? That's the, that's that fine balance. And I think this one to me, this one works West side CD. The Deployment ballet goes on, right. I'm into it. I may have to watch the go see this talk just for the title. Um Let's see. Uh We've got, yeah, a lot of these are, you know, like experience reports, which is great. Um And so this is the so brown is the student track, right? No security and Identity, which is the student track. I because oh there, it's almost the same color, that problem. There's so many tracks and only so many, there's only so many colors in the, in the pantone. Uh um OK. So where were we here? Ok. We're taking up, sorry. Uh If you're watching this, there's uh as I'm scrolling too quickly probably. Um ok, so we got virtual project office hours. Uh If you're into that project, I could see that being really helpful to be able to go, you know, project office hours are great for any kind of like if you're an engineer or if you're somebody that's managing because you can ask project maintainers quick questions that you need address right then. Um you can also learn how you can get involved outside of things like help wanted issues. Like that's, I think that's the real connection piece here. Uh In my opinion, like, I know everybody loves um you know, the technical talks and stuff like that. But I genuinely think at the heart of this community is a lot of that. Um just being able to connect with contributors and maintainers and, you know, people who are working on these things full time and part time and, and independently. So, um I think that's just like a true value add. So if you've never done one of those, you can always just go and sit and listen to like, what? Yeah, just check it out. What are people talking about? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. What are people talking about? Like where the project's gonna go, et cetera? So I was just never thought because like different people come to conferences in general but especially like something like cum for like lots of different things. Like sometimes I'm, you know, I am hands deep in, in using Kubernetes for example, or whatever tooling or whatever things is part of my day to day job. And I want, I, I'm looking for like some practical like, how did you solve this problem? How did you solve my problem? Right. But also that I'm because I'm looking and I'll tell you the talk that made me think about it to me. I also sometimes love watching talks that are about a use case that it's never occurred to me and I will never do. But it's fascinating because it's different. So like this Kubernetes for Mac, right? Like Aws Mac, you know, I mean, I'm like, this is not part of my life, but I probably really wanna go see this talk because it's not the same stuff I've heard about. Also, I feel like I should be logged in. I should be able to like actively uh I'm not logged in. I was like, we could be building my schedule right now if I would, this would be the more productive of this session. Yeah, I mean, I'm in a different, I'm in the wrong chrome instance. I'm in my work one, but it's not logged in to um Lennox Foundation. I mean, I could fix that actually. Um Actually, maybe we should do that. Hey, let's take a hot. Let's take a second here. I'm gonna stop sharing my screen for a minute because I don't know if anything is gonna show up that I don't want people to see um like security things because I also in case you missed uh when, when Ellie Diamond was on and she, I, you know, popped a shell on my laptop because I gave her, you know, administrator access to my Macbook. Clearly, security uh is a uh high priority. It looks like you should go to security con that he should. I am I am evidence just because you follow a lot of security people on Twitter doesn't mean that you actually know anything in your own life about security. Um log in with, come on one password. Oh my goodness. This is harder than it needed to be. Yeah. Well, while you're doing that, I'm gonna give kudos to the event chairs. So Jasmine Emily Ricardo, y'all rock, if you're listening out there and you're like, what's an event chair? These are the folks that run this conference, they give the uh yeses and the nos and they put together a fine program for us and really help us define um the community by this event. So um super shout out to them and all the hard work that they put into this. So it's so many hours and so many people to talk to. So it's really awesome. So what we're learning here is now when I now, since I am logged in now, I've got this little check box. Ticky box next to them so I can just tick what I wanna do also. And we'll talk about this later. You're speaking at this event, manage and we're not gonna promote my session just yet, but we will when we get to it. Um because you talking about earlier earlier, we're in here, we're talking, she's like, I don't know what you're talking about. I'm like, I'm talking about this overlay thing or whatever she goes. No, I mean that you're in your, in your talk. Not like what you're talking about at this very second. No, stop, no idea what Maddie's Cub talking. We're gonna get to that to that. Ok. So we were, um, it was ok, the co Ed for Mac, we're definitely gonna do that one for sure. I'm not saying you have to follow my own thing. But also this is again, all of our security friends. If they are watching this even an hour later are like Maddie. You're terrible, right? You, you, you, you gave Ally access to your computer. Now, you're telling everybody on the internet where you're gonna be at any given time, but it's ok. You're gonna be able to find me at Cuban. It's fine. We're good. Um Let's see. Uh Also if you are watching this in your speaker, you don't see me tick the little box. It doesn't mean that I'm not gonna come see your talk. This is what's jumping out of me right now. Um, dream what I, we have. Um, all right. So I'm gonna kind of skim a little bit. Let's see. Uh, because we're still only in the evening of the first day. Um, let's see. Any, uh, so much, so much stuff. Oh, you know, so I need to go see Justin speak, you know, Justin Cormick. Um, what's Justin speaking on? I'm already well ahead of you in my building right now. Yeah. Um, not two. Yeah, I don't even know what that is. Maybe I deep dive into something that's not relevant to my. Yeah, they, sorry, Justin. Well, I'll, I'll, I'll let, let someone else do that. Um, wait, what was this one? Ok. Disrupting the downtime continuum? Oh, what's, oh, yeah. See, I'm interested in that, like day two stuff, right. It's real easy to be bright and shiny. And then you're like, I, I'm, I'm, I'm old school ops, man. I'm like, how do we actually do this? So, that's cool. Um, I think that's all ops, you know what I mean? Um, I do, let's see. Uh I'm gonna do, I need to do more. I don't understand anything about prow and Paris was telling me something like, oh, we have this whole thing in pro, you should just do it, blah, blah, blah. And I was like, I don't, I don't know how to use prow. So, um, and this looks like the perfect talk for me. Yes, it is. It's a really good talk. So, yeah. No, if folks are out there, like, what's, what are they talking about? Pro is the Cotti homegrown C I CD system brought to you by our SIG testing crew and it's used now by so many projects. I think we're over 30 at this point and not just projects at CNCF but also Amazon Eks openshift, um a couple other cloud providers, Jenkins X. Um So you wanna talk about like bad ass checkout pro um And definitely they're looking for more maintainers and contributors too as well. So you can help change the change the, the coordination and the path of it. So uh that's a great talk to go to and, and kind of hear that overview. Um So yeah, I'll go with you. Yeah. And for, for, again from like uh you know, Pulumi perspective, I remember at, at L A, there were quite a few people like, you know, because some people talk about like, I want to understand this story because how does this fit into Infra Code and, and all those places too. So um I'm fascinated by that. So we'll check that one out. Let's see. Um This was I think even before Probo days. Yeah. All right. So Celeste is giving a talk about documentation. Yes, I'm just gonna go to that. So also everybody should go to any documentation or docs talk you can ever see because I guarantee you never know enough about this and you can never be better about it. Right. So, um, so this is my, my uh, yeah, I and any, you know, yes, go ahead and uh, sign up for that 10, what is this one pod security? So, yes, I was just about to say that Locky Talk. Yeah, for sure. Um, yeah, there's all sorts of reasons for that. Now, I will, I will say this as well. So for reference, Pulumi is a sponsor of at the, at, at this event and I will have some sponsor, booth duty responsibilities. So as much as I'm trying to build my schedule, I may find myself, uh, but I'm gonna try to work around it, but I my, my schedule, this is the other thing. Actually, I'm gonna give a recommendation for people. This is as a relatively professional conference goer or a conference goer that does it for a living a little bit. You're always better off building your schedule over extended because it tells you a couple of different things. So, first of all, it's, I, I always look at it as a, as being, uh, not conservative, right? Like, like, like, like put more things and I always like to think because maybe you're like, you go into a talk and you're like, oh, this and again, you shouldn't like if you're sitting in the front row, don't walk out on somebody's talk. But, you know, but you might even change your mind like later. You might be like, oh, you know what? I don't actually want to see that one now. And so you always wanna have all your, your stuff. Um, yeah, this, uh, booth, for example, I, I just, well, just put that on my list because I already know it's gonna be there. I'm gonna, you know, be handing out stuff handing out uh Pulumi. Uh So by the way, I can't tell you what it is. But uh my coworker Kat Cosgrove has provisioned some very exclusive first time ever Pulumi swag for this coupon event limited supply. Um We expect them to be all the rage. Uh And so make sure you, uh you know, find us as, as soon as possible because you'll uh all right. Um I'm not even checking the keynotes because you go to the keynotes, right? But I kind of, again, this is all about people. Yeah, I mean, for crying out loud tech is easy. People are hard. I'll go listen to Stephen and talk about that all day long, but really only for only for five minutes, I guess. What's the, the API is people? Oh, ok. But it's also only five minutes long doing a lightning lighting keynote, right? I kind of love it. They should do that more. Actually. Keynotes should like we should have more keynotes that are just, yeah, I mean, there's a reason that TED talks are the length they are. Right. That's all science. But I just love ignites. But that's a different story. That's not a lightning talk. That's just a different. Yeah, I do. I think that that's like an art form, in my opinion. It is. And I will tell also just again, if you're watching, like, I have a friend who doesn't do a lot of speaking anymore. But when he did, he, he much preferred ignites because he would get nervous giving a talk and an ignite, he could practice and do it exactly the same every time, beat by, beat by beat. And the longer the talk gets, the harder that is to do. But in an ignite, he was like, it was, he could memorize it but also not even memorize just the words but know the beats and it gave him a lot and then he gave amazing ignites because of that. They were perfect minor chaos and everyone is different. You know, it's basically talk track according to my slides is me doing it ignite. Don't, don't be me, be my friend Jerry. I did at one of the cons and it was about my favorite emojis on Tti Slack. And so yeah, if people want to know about how serious I am with my Lightning Talks, you can check out my emoji talk on youtube. I, most of my ignites are comedic in nature and that's the other thing because you can't really, nobody wants a 30 minute funny talk. That's just too much. Right. Like you, you, there's very few people unless you're deserving of a, you know, Netflix special, like, you know, you know, um, you, you, you don't get 30 minutes to be funny, but five minutes you can pull off. And one of my favorites that I did, that reminded me of, I did this at a chef few years ago and it was, uh, was it, it was like, oh, Dev Lollops and it was about automating gifts and chat and this was before there were bots, like giffy bots and stuff and what? And, and it was like, so I, I had a whole system of like how I did keyboard, like text expansion and curating them and all this stuff and I gave a talk about it and, you know. Yeah, but anyway, that has nothing to do with this. But anyway, the point uh ignites are awesome. Um There are no ignites at, uh, but there are lightning talks which are awesome. Um What else do we have here? Uh, fun with continuous compliance is continuous compliance. Really fun. I'm gonna find out. Um, hopefully somebody can make it fun. Yeah, let's see. Uh All right, we're gonna, we may look back through some things but I wanna make sure we get a chance to. Um, so, uh S cli OK, I mean, someone's got a worry about the, that stuff. Um, and those are probably some of the most important things that nobody, because they're not bright and shiny. But you'd be really mad if they did a crappy job. Um, so I'm looking forward to this talk and again it's, I work in community and stuff but I saw Nancy and Karen have this talk about what the hell does a community manager actually do? And, oh, for sure. Yeah. So, um, yeah, everyone just thinks that I think we Tweet, right? Or they think it's, or they think is community management. Yeah, it's all sorts of stuff. Um, except it's also happening at the same time as another. This is this always people, always my friends speaking at the same time and then I have to decide who I like better. Um Who is it? Well, it's Julie. So Julie Gunderson at Gremlin is an and Kareem at uh has, but Julie and Julie and I worked together at Pager Duty for years and well, felt like years maybe. But anyway, I don't know, I'm gonna check them both because remember you gotta have a backup. So we'll see this way. I can see who is nicer to me who buys me more cookies at coupon if it's Julie or Nancy. Um Neither. I hope probably nobody's buying it also is Valencia known for cookies. Maybe it's um, so, all right. Well, we've got a couple of things. Ok, so we got that going on. Um, we're just not gonna even talk about multi cloud right now because that's a, you got it, let's see. Uh cluster eight. OK. So this all looks, let's see. Um, distributed supply. And, yeah, I mean, oh, what is this cost management best? These are the things where I'm just like, where's the cost management, best practices? This one right here? Why COTIS can't get around fops cost management best practices? Hm. So, I don't know, I wanna check that one out. Actually, there is a new Fin Ups um um foundation under no actual foundation under Linux foundation. Yeah, that's what, that's what they're talking about. They said the OPS approach and the foundation which coined the word dedicated itself to so interesting. Um oh Maintainers tool kit. What is this? I'm not, that's something from the contributor strategy sig um to help other projects, just get um up and going and also, you know, what maintainers need to succeed and thrive and um do awesome things for the project. So it's great that we all are a community like that can collaborate together and um we can hear best practices and stuff like that. So Carolyn and Dawn are working on that and doing great things. So if you have a project out there go and see that it's definitely gonna be valuable. Excellent. Um This one I just had while you were saying that. So I love this, this understanding kubernetes through real world phenomenon and analogies. Yes, I always need ways to explain this better because as uh I think it was Ian cold water that coined it. But the someone asked me to explain Kubernetes to them. And now neither of us understands it. So we need to, you know, be better explain, which is, which is not a take on Cotti. It's just that sometimes we don't do great by explaining things. So any way to help explain things better? Also, as someone who has co cuddle as a license plate, do you know how often I have to explain Kubernetes to non-technical people? It's called every time someone gets in my car. So tell me like, well, let's tell us, tell us I want to know like, how do I explain it to people that like are not in that? Like I'm getting in your car right, right now? Ok. Well, if I have to explain Cotti to Paris Pittman, then you have been doing over her eye for nine. Ok. Cool. And remember this is different than you'd explain it to someone who wants to understand and not that people don't want to understand it, but it's the same thing, right? It's like it's more of the high level thing. And so what I usually say, as I say, OK, so, you know, you have websites and systems and applications and things that you use. So they all require, taught, you know, computers to think and not really think because computers don't really think, but they require things to run and they require hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds. It's not just one big computer in the sky. There's lots and lots of tiny little computers that all do small, very specific things. And somehow we have to get all these tiny little specific computers to know who they need to talk to, what they're supposed to do and where they're supposed to do it. And Cooper helps us get that together. So usually though I just say it's a computer thing, I'm sorry, I'm a nerd and that's pretty much what most people are happy with. But any time I meet a developer, they're just like, tell me where to point my app. Well, but that's different. The developer is different though because developer actually, you know, like it's, it's uh they're like, don't explain it to me, just, just tell me um let's see. Uh oh Threat model. OK. So a light speed inter version, I like anything that's fast. Um Oh but see, OK, see, like I know, like I don't even necessarily really specifically care about, you know, how the like the tech behind it, but like, I love stories of interesting things like, you know, um like what, like again at that scale of like Xbox cloud gaming, like I just want to hear about it, right? Like cool when I went into the last day. Um I guess I should go to this party. Um And um all right, so we've got just again, I'm not even ticking off the keynotes because I just assume I'm gonna go to them. Um, because that's not really a decision point of which one. let's see, avoiding mistakes. Everyone does. Yes. From cloud naive to cloud native. Ok. I, but then the jokes. 00, and Max, Max works at that company that's doing the fin stuff too. Mhm. Um, oh, I mean, ok, sorry, I didn't even see this so I am a, ok, there's two reasons I'm gonna go see this talk. One is again, it's about anime or whatever and I'm not like huge in anime. Although you should know that if you want to work on the Dev team at Pulumi our Onboarding Docs do tell you to watch all of Neon Genesis Evangelion. Um, but that's, that's more different than that. But also Annie is amazing. So, like I've done other stuff before Annie got involved in. So Annie Tabas, she's given great talks. But also, um, I've done some, some. Really? Oh, I didn't know she was a Kaunda now. Neat. Ok. So, we're gonna go see that talk. What anime taught me about Kate's development. Um, let's see. Uh, well, we'll just go ahead because we're not gonna talk though. I, yeah, I know. Um, ok. So lessons learned from, I just, uh, too much to choose. Oh, yeah. Ok. On a, you know, we're gonna go see that one. Plus also. I, oh, except we have a problem and I knew this. So I have a conflict. There's another talk happening at the same time as this talk that I want to see and that talk is by this person, by this jackass Maddie Stratton and the wonderful person Whitney Lee. So I, I'm gonna have to. So I remember specifically saying, oh, going up against this. But yes, so we can take a minute to uh talk about my talk or that I am helping give, it's not just my talk um with uh Whitney from VM Ware. So the talk in the link I just, you know, sort of popped into there. So the talk a karaoke song that, well, it did start off. I will tell you the working title for this talk was I wish I were a K baller. Uh So it was like based on I wish like by kilo and, but then we're like, no, it's, you know, we kind of moved our way around but it did, it was all very uh sourced from, from, from karaoke. Uh But this isn't, well, this isn't the student track it. We, we think it should be applicable to kind of anybody that wants to check it out. And our approach is that you may or may not know this, but the cloud native landscape is kind of ridiculously big. There's a lot to it as Paris pointed out. It's not just Cober netti, not only is it not just Cober Netti, it's Kubernetes plus 11 billion other things. Uh It can be very intimidating, but we don't think that you should just give up. So uh we're gonna talk about because different people learn in different ways. So there's not one right way to learn cloud native, right? And so in our talk, we have some fictional learners to identify with who might come from a background similar to you or a different style. And they're all people who are trying to get better at uh Kubernetes and Cloud Native. Actually, we're being a little specific about Kubernetes in terms of this because again, there's just too much, we only have however much time and we're gonna kind of talk about different ways to um learn what your personal learning strategy might be and then what resources apply to that. We're gonna kind of Sprinkle in some anecdotes about real life, well known people in the community. So I don't know one of those might be Paris. You don't know that I'm gonna ask you this, but I'm gonna ask you how you learn this stuff. And if you give me a good enough answer, it'll be in the talk. Uh But that's the thing too because I think that stuff is helpful as well as well as Whitney and I both have different uh journeys that got us here. So this is just as well. It's not a, I don't want to say it's not a technical talk um it's a talk about learning, but it's specifically about how you can learn, how you can identify how you want to learn or how you learn best. And then what are some of the types of re so some of the specific resources even in the community around cloud native that will help you really level that up. So that's, that's what we're doing with that. Um And that's on Friday and, yeah, I guess I need to go to, oh my God. Now I got to scroll all the way back down. But if you're not interested in that you can go, I will laugh so hard if you miss your talk because you went to talk to the other talk. I will. Um, I'm not that new at this but new enough. Wait worded. No one else thought you would do that. I, I, uh, ok. Anyway, so we've got, um, yeah, starting your own course through the cloud landscape. I think you missed my talk too. But that's ok. I don't even know if I'm actually listed on the list. That's why you must be one of the TBD S. No, I'm not one of the TBD. Si Wish I was the TV D event chairs. Please give me a TV. D. No, I'm just kidding. So, what talk is I, I'm doing a panel and I don't know if I'm in the panel yet, but it's for the CNET steering committee. Ok. So, um, it's Yeah, it's just like a come and ask us questions session. So yeah. No, nothing. I'm just trying to find it. Nothing as entertaining as Whitney. And you doing karaoke in front of a live audience. So I don't know that we agreed to that. Oh, is it this the steering committee? A ma? OK. That's just, I think they just have, yeah, Christoph submitted it to Christoph if you're listening at us. 00, and so you have a similar problem like, so there's, there's three, I mean, ok, to be fair. Everybody, I just realized I was gonna say something a little cruddy, but I didn't mean it like everybody's going up against amazing people. But there are, you know, plus actually all these other amazing talks too, so not gonna get no one steering committee. Dang it. I, what I will tell you. So it's funny because you never know what. Yeah. So I remember I spoke at um this like kind of, I'm not gonna, not gonna name the event because I don't wanna, you know, but it was like this I till service management kind of the old school thing. And that the first year that they had a Devops track and they only had a couple talks in the des track. It wasn't even necessarily a track actually, it was just having and you'll see this because almost all, all, most of the Devops talks all happened at the same time, which was amazing. I'm like, really? So their track was simultaneous. Um, so three of the people who spoke at that and I, it doesn't matter if you know who they are, but I'll just, I'll tell you why this matters. So, one was Damon Edwards who's been part of the devops community for a long time. And if you're familiar with the term calms or Cams, Damon is one of the one who came up with it and he's a great speaker. Um And then there was J Paul Reed who is one of my favorite speakers to listen to about this stuff because he talks a lot about resilience and all these things and I looked at what his talk was and then there was me and my talk was basically like devops 101. No, no, no. So here's the deal. My room was standing room, only three people went to Paul's talk and maybe about 20 people went to Damon's and because it's the audience, right? Like these people, like they did like at a, at a, at a, you know, more dev ops oriented event, everybody would have been, you know, was it would want to hear about those things. But these were folks who had never even really understood any of it yet. And they're like, I just want to get a basic understanding and I was like, no, you really, but, but Paul is much smarter than me. So, um the point is anyway, you never know. Um Let's see, what else. How do we round out our Friday though? Um Let's see. Students as SRE that loves to see. Ok, so this is another journey I love journey talks. Um By the way, if you're thinking about submitting talks to events, telling your story while it might not seem interesting to you is interesting to a lot of people. Um So that's, that's a little pro tip on talk submission. Um As I said, what? I just like the whose story is not interesting. I said as, as I tell my head, I'm like me. My story is not interesting, you know, my the devil and oh, this is interesting. Cotti is in a manufacturing line. Oh, yeah. Again, back to my thing where I'm like, I want to see the weird stuff you do or not the weird stuff but the non, the stuff that people, you know, the, the non, the atypical examples but actually are probably much more real world. Oh, now, oh, well, you know what I feel like this talk is very similar. They're also talking about navigating the CNCF landscape, but we're talking about charting a course which I guess they're both, they're both nautical puns so similar. There sounds similar and so is awesome. So is, 000, well, there's, there's a whole panel on here. Ok. So yeah, we're gonna end the day with a panel that's the navigating, the navigating 10, that's a panel. Yeah, you, yeah, you, it looks like you and Whitney are doing a story and they're probably doing, um, a panel. Interesting. Yeah, and that would be nice to end, end the week with, I think. Ok, so, yeah, let's see your schedule. Ok. Um, ok. Sketch. Um, schedule. Oops. Now, let's see what it looks like. I'm trying to figure out how to see my own schedule. Simple expanded grid. You must be registered my schedule. There it is. Ok. So here's what we're doing. Um Why do I have all these friends? Why, why, how did you decide I'm friends with these people? I probably, I am for the most part, but I don't, I don't even know what that means. Oh, I wonder if it's because you clicked their session and they're speaking at that session also. Ske is not just like, I think your sketch account is broader than this. So like they may be like connections I've had from previous events like, I mean, Carolyn and I would be, I mean, like that's legit. But um and I guess, you know, Chris Swarts. Ok. I'm just kidding. Chris is great. All these people are fine, but I, yeah, or maybe they added me and it's like, I don't know how it works. We'll figure that out. All right. So here's what we got, we're gonna do this lightning talk that I'm fascinated by these two lightning talks are great. We're gonna see about. So that just means you should just sit there through the whole I'm going to talk and I really, now the thing is I feel like I'm gonna, actually, we're gonna go look at this in a minute and I wonder if as a speaker, you see how many people added you because then I kind of wanna, like, make sure to add people to gas them up a little bit too, like, like, or not add them but like same thing like these lightning talks just jumped at me, but obviously I'm gonna see all the lightning talks. Yeah, I'm not gonna get up and come back 15 minutes later for this. Um, but ok, and then we've got this and again, the same thing, I don't have my, the keynotes and stuff on here and I will have to see how my, you know, other responsibilities go. But ok, so we got our Kubernetes for Mac. We're gonna talk about downtime the pro one for sure. Um Yeah, look at this. I mean, I, I'm, I don't know, I don't know how I'm gonna clone myself. We're gonna have like a Michael Keaton multiplicity thing going on. Uh, you know, and actually with my luck, I'm gonna get scheduled for booth duty at exactly this time. So that I don't have actually, that would be lucky because then I don't have to choose among people. I was gonna say you could just do, do a few minutes of each because knowing that you'll have the recording. That's true. If I just, yeah, but I won't sit up front. Yeah, exactly. Which is, which I will say. So when my friends are giving talks or not even my friends, but people just in, in general, I like to sit in the front row and be, like, really supportive and positive. Right. Like, I just, like, sit there and, like, give big smiles and, like, gas people up, but I won't do that if I know I'm only gonna be there for a little bit. So, um, ok. Uh, again, I got to decide between the two. Um, the fin ups. Uh, again, I've got a conflict but we'll figure it out. Yeah. But, well, I get the two, right? See the service, the Xbox one. But also the analogy. I'm, I'm sorry, I'm probably gonna end up with the analogy one. But, you know, again, well, whoever scheduling booth time at Pulumi listen up Matt needs to be scheduled so he can get out of his conflicts. So, ok, so now that said if I go to, so if I went back to the schedule, I wanna see what I see as a speaker. Manage and promote your session. Let's see. What can we do here? Oh, there we go. So it tells me who's, uh, added it. So it matters to do that. So you should definitely doesn't mean go and add everybody because I mean, you can, I mean, I don't know, I'm not here to tell you how to live your life. Um, you clearly are a little bit, a little bit, but, yeah, 14 attendees have added your session. Um, cool. That's a good start. Hey, private edit. Oh, they edit it three times. I'm just kidding. Um Awesome. I don't see Paris Pitman on here. So, you know, you can go to hell. Um, but you're like, I'm not going to that. You're like, I'm going out, sorry. It's like a no, I'm, I'll have my team Whitney shirt on. Yeah. Well, that's fine. That's good as well. You should as well. You should. Um So we're, we're actually, yeah, so, so we kind of talked a little bit about the schedule and the events but, um, there's, you know, not for nothing, you know, things are happening in the world. I mean, things have been happening for a few years. But yeah, I mean, he, that's one of the main reasons why I still haven't officially booked all my stuff. Um, but I mean, I'm going this, I mean, virtually or on site, right? Like this is our thing, our time to be together and shine as a community and there's nothing like, um being together in not great times. So, um it's, I think, you know, for me it's, that's kind of pulling me in the direction of go. Um, you know, but I think I'll make the final call in a week or so. And I know plenty of people that have made calls one way or the other already and al also other people still in my spot. So, um, it's, it is what it is. Right. And, and I think that's kind of how we've been for lots of reasons. Just that's been real life conferences. I mean, people were doing that with coupon eu last year and even with L A with North America, it's like for all sorts of reasons. Um We just live in very adaptable times but, but we've moved ourselves, you know, from, uh from our community and our conference perspective to really enable for participation in lots of different ways. Um wherever that, wherever that can come in, I think that's just also born from open source too, which is so amazing. I mean, that's like a pillar of our community and just being always open and asym and distributed. And, um but did we really do it that well with conferences before? Made us do it? Yeah, definitely not. Um But I definitely think, you know, out of all of the industries, we had it a little bit, probably had it a little bit better. Um And I think that the Linux Foundation's event staff is far none. Um They're the best, pretty much in the land, in my opinion. Um And they put on great events and I think that it's all like the Cuban in Los Angeles was so fabulous with the COVID restrictions and um the safety measures and everything like that. So I've really appreciated that event a ton. So, um that's definitely, again, what's pushing me towards the go knowing that they had that kind of past precedence experience now with um running these kinds of events. So I think that's what helps me towards the, the go the go side. So I and III, I think it's interesting, there's a few things and this, this goes specific to the coupon events, but just in general, and as someone who has been heavily involved in attending and also planning and organizing conferences at all sorts of different levels of that. Um The one thing I've said since the beginning of us doing virtual events in 2020 is that I don't wanna see us uh go backwards, like because there is a huge amount of access to these events for people that can't get on a plane or, or, you know, can't do that. And I know we love seeing our friends in person and there's a lot that happens with that. And I just was um very hopeful, although pessimistic, I'll admit that this, you know, that we weren't gonna then immediately go back to the way they were. But I think these events are actually great examples of that. No, and II I, I'm hopeful and beyond hopeful. Just I, I believe it to be true that this, you know, I have, I have my thoughts on what it means to have a hybrid conference. And I don't know that that's 100% true. But this both virtual and in person and having this inclusivity of, of all the types of participants, uh especially at least for coon, I think that's just how it's always gonna be. That's just, that's what a conference is now. And I think that's, you know, what I drive for for, you know, like DEV upstate Chicago that I run. Like we, we're basically saying the bar has been also been raised. We can't have an in person conference where we just throw up a live stream and say cool, that's what it was right now. We've done that because besides it being the right thing to be able to invite people and make it accessible to them. It makes the experience, but it just enriches everybody. So um Paris thank you for, for joining me here on, on the stream. Um If you uh this was a, this was what I did. I did. We will uh we, we're prepared and ready to go. We'll be back here on Pulumi Vision on Thursday at our usual time. So we usually do Pulumi Vision on Thursdays at noon uh Pacific and we have our one offs like this sometimes. Um We may be adjusting our regular cadence. We're, we're talking about that. But anyway, but if you do uh tune in here on Pulumi Vision on Thursday, uh I will not have a guest. So if that, you know, but it's just gonna be be me going solo, but we're gonna be doing a full stack. Pulumi I guess we might call it. Um As much as I don't like the term full stack, but it's fine. We're gonna, but I'm gonna be using. What's that? Is this like an up and running? No, what I'm doing is so, so, uh my, my buddy Coworker, uh Christian Eno, wrote a great blog post about deploying the me stack on digital Ocean using Pulumi. And so I'm just gonna kind of go through the stuff he did with that and that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna sort of get, get a burn app, you know, running out on do using Pulumi and those are all the pieces and it'll be, it'll be fun. So, my favorite type of stream to do is one where someone else has done all the work and I'm just following along. Um Honestly, I think that's great. We talked about that earlier during like that stuff is so valuable to people. So I love it. That's awesome. Well, so thanks for tuning in to Pulumi Vision. Uh Don't forget to push the subscribe or follow or whatever button is on whatever social platform you're watching this on. Just do that and uh we will see you on the internet.

---
