---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Cloud Engineering Panel"
title: "PulumiUP 2022: Cloud Engineering Panel"
meta_desc: |
    In this panel, moderated by Pulumi Co-Founder, Eric Rudder, we will discuss accelerating innovation through cloud engineering.
url_slug: pulumiup-2022-cloud-engineering-panel
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Cloud Engineering Panel"
  description: |
    In this panel, moderated by Pulumi Co-Founder, Eric Rudder, we will discuss accelerating innovation through cloud engineering.
  sortable_date: 2022-06-13T01:00:09Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/X3g0yOXKfqo
transcript: |
    Well, welcome. Uh I'm excited you guys can all join us for the Cloud Engineering leadership panel. Uh We've got a great bunch of folks and I think the best way to start is to start by introducing ourselves. So my name is Eric, uh I'm co-founder and chairman of Pulumi. Um And hopefully these names uh ring a bell with you because they are all uh industry luminaries uh in their own way. But I'll let them start by introducing themselves and talking a little bit about um whether they're doing their current roles and maybe a little bit about past history. So why don't we start with Grace? Thanks. Thanks, Eric. Uh So I'm Grace Francisco of Cisco. And yes, I'm originally from San Francisco uh but not there right now. Um And I work as the vice president of developer relations strategy and experience. And so that for me includes cross company developer strategy, which includes things like driving for api quality standards across all of our API offerings and continuing to grow and nurture our infrastructure and network engineering community and continuing to help Cisco to reach enterprise application developers. So that's the core of what I do right now. Thanks, Justin. Hi, my name is Justin Fitz. Uh I work at Snowflake uh title as vice president of uh cloud engineering and product security here. Uh I'm responsible for the technical infrastructure um across all the cloud platforms. Um how we manage how we engineer that platform as well as the, the production security side. So doing a threat modeling and, and, and uh looking at new features um and, and how they, how they can be as secure as possible. Previous to this, I, I did a, a few different stints. One building a CD N I worked at Mozilla Firefox, then at drive and various different environments, building kind of large scale uh platform infrastructure. And finally, Dan, hi, I'm Dan Garrety. Uh I'm the senior vice president of developer services at Oracle. And uh so my team is responsible for the services and programs, everything that's necessary for developers to take um ideas all the way through to production at scale uh in the cloud. And before Oracle, I worked at AWS for about five years on some of their platform, high volume high throughput systems. And uh I'm glad to be here uh honored to be invited and happy to be participating. That's awesome. So, before I ask any question, I wanna make sure I start you, uh I, I'll thank you at the beginning and hopefully I'll remember to thank you at the end, but I, I really wanna thank you guys for sharing some of your time and, and uh and wisdom um with the uh the community as well. So I think I just wanna start off by asking just kind of the most generic question, you know, when we think about cloud engineering and healthy teams and healthy organizations, you know, how do we think about, you know, the, the characteristics or measuring a successful organization or what's the most important signal to you that things are going well or how do you measure KP I, it's kind of an open ended question, but sort of how do you define a successful team? So I don't know, I'll rotate a little bit. So why don't we start this one with Justin? Uh And we'll get everyone's uh point of view on the, on the topic. That's a great question. I think this, this continues to um Morph and iterate as, as companies grow and go through different phases. But one of the ways that I look at specifically successful cloud engineer organization is how, how many um we strive quite a bit to move towards building platforms that are self service and not being the blocker, not being standing in the way. Uh Historically, uh devo slash cloud engineering is often kind of the, the, the one who's I wouldn't say standing the way, but everybody needs a massive amounts of dependencies are inbound against the organization. And so one of the areas that, that we're looking at in terms of defining a successful organization and, and, and, and how are we enabling the business is getting out of that critical path? Well, still being in a path by building a platform but not having our, our staff or any kind of manual processes be in that path, that path instead building systems or platforms or infrastructure that people can leverage and self-service and, and really be the enabler to the business moving fast and, and quickly. So that's one area that, that, that we're looking at kind of as a key as a key measurement for success in, in the organization. Yeah. And do you measure things like like formally or we do? Well, there's a lot of ways that I think there's certainly a feeling but um as we go, we do kind of a quarterly planning cycle and every quarter, we look at um how many inbound dependencies. And so you can look at that metric and you can look at that number and you can also look at the type of um of, of requests that are coming in, are they single one off tickets asking you to build a specific VPC or are they including you uh or, or is it a cross functional project that you're a part of the latter is much more what we're focused on? And so I think you look at the number of, of kind of dependencies that are being asked and as that starts to come down, I think you, that's a, that's a measure of success. Um There's also kind of a, a less kind of just, just more of a, a feeling as you go through, kind of, do people feel like they're constantly blocked and like, does the team feel overwhelmed and, or, or is it always oversubscribed or can we service all of the requests that are coming in with the capacity we have? That's another, another measurement I think of success. And, and so we've been watching that and kind of moving more in that direction. Cool. So grace you talk to developers every day. I know that there's, there's no developer in the world that ever feels overwhelmed and uh they can obviously service any request. But uh so sort of same question but sort of from a different point of view, you know, what, what are you hearing from developers and you, you're welcome to build on points about self service because I do think that's an important trend um for development teams. Um And of course, velocity is important to any manager, but you see all different sizes and scopes and Cisco itself has different business units and in different stages of development. So how do you think about uh cloud engineering success? Sure. Uh I think one, I'll take this from a couple of different angles because Cisco is a network infrastructure company that also has a lot of soft for an API S to help with the automation piece. And so for us, uh it's really vital for us to track NPS and CS A scores in terms of developers, engagements with us and how they're viewing those api experiences, those developer experiences that they have. And we own that strategy across the company in terms of making sure that quality is consistent, that they're getting what they need to have like a seamless experience as they're doing their automation and program for being able to manage at scale the devices that they have to be able to do that without getting on a cli and to minimize the manual nature of some of the work that they used to do. Right. So that's a transformation process from, from our point of view, what we've been doing over the last 56 years is really helping that shift and transformation of many it organizations from that command line to program building. And that actually required a lot of teaching and mentoring and getting people to get comfortable with scripting, basic scripting, which was, you know, actually really scary for a lot of these network and infrastructure engineers. You know, some of them actually said that I'm a hardware guy. I don't, I don't know if I wanna do this programming thing. So we had to make it palatable for them to get engaged with us around those things. And we've actually gotten 23,000 developers certified on our uh experiences on Cisco. So that they can actually leverage our API S to automate the work that they do and remove some of those issues that happen when you're doing copy and paste in the command line. Uh So that's part of what's happened there. And then for us internally, we, we have a, a dashboard that we keep to ensure that we're getting a level of quality and consistency across the API S that we publish. Uh Because we started with CLI S, the, the process of API publishing was very different across the different groups. So now we're trying to drive a level of consistency and standards so that when you use an API from Cisco, it's as consistent as possible because our developers and partner is, is one company. Awesome. Thanks. So, Dan, I think uh so Grace highlighted a few interesting things when you're building a platform, you know, things like your quality uh scale consistency. You've had experience at some of the largest cloud provider platforms in the world, not to say Snowflake is a teeny weenie company, but Aws uh OC I um those things are obviously important to you. So how do you think about um success of, of cloud engineering, partly as provider and partly as you're helping people on board to the platforms? Yeah. So, um you know, that's an interesting question and we do sort of have our two constituencies, you know, so I sort of look at our internal teams and say how do we measure them? And then also we wanna, you know, our product is a service for our developers and we wanna make sure that they're happy. So kind of a mix of both. So kind of what grace was saying when I'm looking externally, we're looking at and PS, we're looking at P app, we're looking at surveys, we're looking at feedback, all, all of our console operations now have uh you know, we have a feedback service and it records what people are trying to do while they're trying to do it. So my team developer services is all about making the developer experience great. And, and I think that in the cloud, making the developer experience great is yes, it's about documentation. It's about API S, it's about the cli it's about the console. Um But it's also about the complexity and the services that are offered. And so that's really what we're going for developers being successful. That's what we want to measure. Now internally, it's a little bit different. So internally we are focused on trying to leverage some of the strengths of oracle which include, for example, security, you know, oracle databases uh for, you know, 30 years have been trusted with important pi I credit card data, that kind of stuff. So we want to make sure that we're focused on, on, on security, of course, but then operations is a is a, is a close second. So again, our product is a service, our customers expect our service to be available. So availability is a key metric for us. So all the way down, we have what we call case metrics, which are customer. I'm not even sure what it stands for, but it's basically the customer's experience. And so like we're, most of our service is looking for four nines. Um And then we measure uh you know, time to detect in, in the case of incidents, time to mitigate and time to fully recover. And those are the four key metrics that on which, you know, I hold my teams accountable. Um So, you know, I think it's because we're serving customers, we obviously need to look at those uh metrics, NPS. How are our developers doing? Are they able to get their job done? Um And then internally, yeah, it's, it's effectively security operations and a little bit of uh velocity. Yeah. No. So I think it's interesting. So, you know, the uh obviously, if you're a giant serving, you know, tens of thousands of dollars, it's important to actually literally measure MP S and send out surveys. But even if you're a platform team within an organization, that same type of feedback, am I serving my business units getting that feedback on, you know, our quality, our availability, our security and making sure the business units trust you and, and thinking about the fact that there has to be some, you know, feedback loop involved some sense of prioritization, you know, uh you know, a lot of us are building platforms from multiple uh internal groups. Uh Everyone's got their favorite feature. Uh you know, everyone wants to take the infrastructure guy out for a cup of coffee. Uh And uh you know, hope that uh you can get your favorite developer to implement your feature. Um And yet, you know, the the infrastructure, you know, developers are often under a tremendous amount of pressure and, and uh um the sense of prioritization within a team, I think is um is super important. So with that, I, I know um you know, some of the um these things are easy to talk about. Uh But I think it's, it's also interesting to talk about some of the key challenges that people face um whether that's hiring or developing um uh um developers uh in terms of, you know, career skills and growth. Um some of us are dealing with multi cloud. Um Some of us have to deal with security and compliance um in very different ways. So I'm kind of curious on um you know, what, what we think the most important challenges are and maybe if you have some suggestions on how to address them, I don't know, maybe you can build on that, Dan Yeah, sure. Um You know, it's funny you were asking about how we measure our teams and, and I gave sort of what we call the output goals, but the question is, you know, how do you get to four nines of availability? And the answer there is uh DEV ops. And you know, it's interesting because you know what I would say is one of the biggest challenges we face is that developers, engineers come out of university and they come out of other companies having a lot of experience with building, you know, writing Java or no Js or whatever the case may be on their laptop, you know, running it in an alpha environment on their laptop, pushing it to a beta environment and then letting it go and they lack the, the curricula in the in these universities are not teaching things. Like how does a team work together? How do you do code reviews? How do you push code, how do you roll back something? You know, how do you make, how do you make a scheme of change for the roll back in case something goes wrong? And so one of the things that I'm doing with my team is we are going into these universities, most of it's oriented toward HHB CS and HS I, but we are working with universities to help them improve their curriculum, to look more at a cloud based service. And in, you know, traditionally you sort of had development and Q A and now it's end to end ownership, right? You've got service teams that are thinking about what the customer needs, designing it, architect, designing, implementing testing pushing and operating and the DEV ops component of that is not well understood. And so I think, you know, there's, there's two keys to that one in my experience is really uh training new employees well and training them in working together as a team. Uh And what that really means is, you know, how you do code commits, how do branching, how you do DEV ops, how you scan your executables, how you manage to, to make your customers look like security and compliance gurus because you've done the hard work for them. So I think really it's about uh yeah, hiring the right people and then giving them the skills right away and then reinforcing that and helping to adjust their expectations to understand that part of the job. Yes, you get the right job or you get to write all these great features. But you know what part of the job is, is pushing to 40 regions, 50 regions, 60 regions um with automated rollback and automated deployment tools and configuration is code, et cetera. So it sounds like a lot of what you're talking about is, is just bringing software engineering discipline to infrastructure development. So Justin is that, is that the same thing that if you would put to list your top challenges, would it be, you know, continuing to bring a software engineering mindset to infrastructure development or do some of other of these challenges pop into your head? That we haven't talked about or no, definitely actually building on what Dan said, I think that we're actually progressing past what, what I consider devs and taking cloud edge to look what we want cloud edge to really look like. Just another area of engineering that happens to be focused on infrastructure and, and that tooling, right? And, and we really continue to focus on each component as they build it. They, they have this kind of end, end ownership. It's not just that they write a service, they throw to the wall and hope it works in Q A and then devops goes and runs it and takes the pager very much. We, we're focused on how do we build a platform, how do we build an infrastructure that is scalable and then work with or maybe embed with those teams so that they can then run we, we built within cloud engineering, a production engineering team, um Facebook and some other teams have kind of the similar concept where that team wholly focuses a set of very senior engineers that go and work with various different component teams to build in scalability, reliability, the um manageability um into their component so that they have that tool set, but then they can also operate it on their own. And and then what what we're doing in cloud engineering is building that platform. So maybe the the observable stack, the infrastructure stack or the the platform but have it very easy to use and they can operate their own infrastructure. And then we start to cloud engineering really looks much more like just another engineering team focused on the infrastructure pieces. Um And what that does is actually ties back to what you were just saying, Eric around any kind of infrastructure change should look like a commit should flow through the same kind of processes that you see in the rest of software engineering. So how do we adopt those generally accepted software engineering practices into that infrastructure world? Um And, and how do we build a platform that kind of facilitates that? And that, that's really where we've been focusing on from a cloud engineering perspective. So it, it dovetails nicely with what Dan was talking about, I think as well. Yeah. So I think so you clearly given the, the shift from uh DEV ops to cloud engineering if you will, which is sort of why we adopted the moniker. So Grace, I'm curious if you could talk about how do you think we can accelerate that shift? So part of it is training, you know, you're, you're obviously an expert at training, you know, thousands of engineers. Uh you know, uh maybe the woman who's running, you know, 20 engineers and in her group needs to think about, you know, sort of a different mindset moving from devs to a, you know, a more robust, you know, cloud engineering culture. What are some of the, you know, tips and tricks to, to bring out that culture overall. And I love that you're addressing this, the perspective of culture. That's exactly it. Right. Which is, I we're still seeing a lot of these silos in organizations, right? Where DeVos is in some corner and in ops and then you've got your application engineers and somewhat in the business and then there's this finger pointing stuff that's happening. And so the, the, the real transformation that needs to happen in industry is to bring these two groups in a unified way. Yes, you can have some specialties, but there needs to be a level of transparency and the full stack observable tools that you use all the way from the top, all the way down to the bottom of the stack into the containers and the micro services themselves. So that as these teams are working in unison, right? They have the same shared visibility of what's going on where and can share the responsibility of how to debug, how to fix that issue and make sure that things are, you know, they have that real up time. And when it's not having that up time, understanding, is there a problem at the edge? Is there a problem in this this micro service? How do we decouple those things but work together culturally as one unified cloud engineering practice, both the dev ops side plus the engineering application side. I think that's really the the magic that needs to happen. And I think that we're just at the very early stages of making that possible with full stock observer value tools like app adynamic and other tools that we have like 1000 eyes. And those things will help to create that transparency where that finger pointing probably gets reduced. Because then there is a level of responsibility that you could have whether you're getting that FSO data within the ID E, right, having that transparency as you're building as a developer or that transparency in the the dashboard that you look at day to day to day as an author, it person, I think that's super important. And on top of that, I think publishing and sharing those best practices and conversations like this super important because it can't happen without that level of like conversation discussion and willingness to shift how we do things today in those silos and to really have that shared responsibility and that, that, that mentality of being a team, a winning team together uh so that you can accelerate that digital transformation in your organization. Yeah, I think that's really important. I think if you sort of compare where we were, you know, a few years ago uh to where r obviously the the des or cloud engineering practitioner, obviously, the culture has changed, you know, if I go to Justin's case, uh certainly, when you were doing builds in Mozilla a few years ago compared to how you do cloud engineering today, I'm, I'm sure there's a, a little bit of a difference. So for people who are still early in the C I CD journey, maybe, um and, you know, are working to increase their velocity. Um you know, maybe for some, for some groups, maybe even staging and production or new, you know, concepts to think about. Can you think about some of the, the pitfalls maybe as people are going through this cultural and engineering transformation that, you know, that you've hit or that people may hit and, and uh you know, how can people avoid them? Uh you know, can we can we can we benefit from the pioneers uh that have the arrows in their back, so to speak? Uh You know, what would you advise people who are sort of just starting this transformation journey? Oh Justin, sorry. Oh, sorry. I, I was waiting for you to prompt us for, for. So um I, I think it's a, it's a great question that um I think that one you know, a lot of this sounds fantastic in terms of um theoretical and kind of it. It's a, it's a great vision. Um And then when you go to implement this, it it gets messy real fast, right? I mean, because you have culture shifts, you have people changing. I think grace called this out earlier that people have to shift and they, they kind of, they get worried about the technology changes and stuff. And so I think one of the keys for us was embracing the fact that kind of the current operational workload and that skill set is equally as important as the software engineering skill set and that it's just a matter of shifting it and bringing that team together as a whole. I, I think a pitfall that I've seen is where you kind of go build this new team of sues and, and, and, and they're the, they're the new thing and everyone's kind of looks at that and, and, but the people who are actually keeping the lights on it, keeping the boat afloat, um and keeping the business moving, um may feel devalued or may feel like their skill set isn't, isn't valued, but in fact, it's incredibly valuable. It's just how do we shift that kind of, and how do we shift that, that team and that talent along with it? Um Because you, you can't lose that. You need to, you need to bring that along and integrate it. And I think that um it's a challenge to do because you're trying to shift and you're trying to set a direction at the same time, you know, bring those people to help them kind of along that path. And I think that's difficult. So I, I think that the, the advisor, what I would I would say is make sure you don't lose sight of the value and, and really how important that work is on the operational side as you make that shift and make sure you bring, um, the team along as a whole as opposed to kind of a lift and shift replacement, which will surely not go well, in my opinion. Yeah, I, I think that's, I think you bring up some interesting point. It's, it's a, it's a change for teams and it's a change for leaders, uh, and, and making sure they bring the whole team together the rest of the organization too. It's not, I mean, even outside of cloud, it's like the the engineering, the rest of engineering I think has to come along on that journey as well. So yeah, yeah, I think that it damn anything to add to the picture. I mean, I I think, you know, as with, as with, with most things you want to begin with the end in mind. So for us, for example, four nines of secure service, you know, period, full stop, right? And now we at Oracle, we're approaching 100 different regions. And if you can imagine 100 regions, you know that we have all these different compute shapes, all different memory shapes, you know, we have the the containers that all need different uh you know, levels of memory disk, database connections, et cetera. So every region is slightly different. And so when you start by telling the teams, OK, four nines secure. Now, what does that really mean? That means you need to have great deployment practices, you need to have automatic roll back, you need to have tooling, you need to have configuration as code. You know, you can't just, you can't just push code like it like in the old days. And so I think when people really start to begin that and focus on that, you know, time to detect time to mitigate time to recover, um rolling things out with and, and, and we actually have everyone test their rollback as part of the deployment so you can't deploy until you've tested your roll back. And so those kinds of things, I think sort of a singular focus on what's the, the objective and then working backwards from that to get what you need. That's awesome. I, I think one of the other things we sort of hit on implicitly is that these new tools, you know, coupled with the, you know, self serve platforms that we're building empower developers uh to a degree that they may not have been empowered in the past. So, you know, you know, a woman can go at your work and boom, you know, there's a giant, you know, database instance that didn't agree that didn't, that didn't exist uh you know, 10 minutes ago, whereas in the past, that might be, I don't know, a two week, two month procurement process. So how do we sort of balance, you know, some of the power and, and of um you know, self empowerment that um that developers are getting with some of the discipline and rigor that we want. I don't know, grace any ideas on um how to, how to, you know, maximize the strengths of the empowerment and yet, you know, embrace, you know, the, the corporate and, and team goals as well, you know, II I have to start with, you know, over the last decade and more with the advent of cloud and self serve SAS platforms. It's been magic for developers, right? Because then we can just use the free tier, put in their credit card and start working with some new technology or, or service immediately. There's no like I've got to get some I person to, you know, provision it for me. It's gonna take me a month or two, maybe I'll get it. It's an immediate like immediate gratification moment, right? Of I'm I'm gonna get that is a developer and start playing around with this thing that I'm super interested in and I'm gonna bring it into my workplace. That's a very common thing I've seen over the last decade and that optionality, that decree flexibility can be super powerful, but it can also create a level of Wild Wild West chaos, right? Especially in a large organization that for leaders like us and causes like massive headaches because there's security compliance, there's governance, there's all sorts of things that that developer may not have thought of. So you do have to strike a balance around what a developer such in a large enterprise is gonna be allowed to use in terms of self provision, giving them that independence and that's that gets down to like standard deployments that you offer them out of the box. And those standard deployments need to be ones that you survey your engineering organizations and understand what are the needs, what what are the like, major things that most of these engineering organizations really true need and make that as self served as possible that there always gonna be some thing that some developer is, is gonna want. And then you have to sort of address that as on a case by case basis and understand how that fits within your compliance and policy requirements across your different regions. Um So that's, you know, part of the striking and balance. And I would say, I think the mistake some organizations make is that you don't resurvey, you have to keep surveying because technology and tools keep changing, right. So you have to keep uh advocating for collecting the right level of data to make sure that the the the self serve options that you provide are the right ones at the right time for your engineering orgs. Yeah, I think that that's interesting. The uh I'll ask dressing for a little bit uh building on the, the fact that the tools evolved as well. So one thing is the tools themselves evolve to help with policy and compliance. And so you know, sort of same question to you. How do you, how do you think about, you know, uh balancing this tradeoff between development empowerment and, you know, um let's call it engineering discipline. Uh And how do you use the new tools to sort of balance those, those two? Yeah, I, I think it's um the mindset that we take again is building a platform and the developers are customers. And how are we, how are we reducing the friction for them to use, try manage and, and build a, a uh an application or a service as, as needed? And so, II, I think we leverage these tools to create automation. But what we've also done is we've said, you know, um we have to have kind of this tooling distributed. So, so we built kind of an overarching framework where we allow each various individual engineering teams to build modules that plug into an overall framework that has a set api of kind of requirements and, and verification steps because I, I feel like if, if you try to centralize all of this and all the tools into one team, you, you just start to bottleneck the organization. And so I think there's a striking a balance of, hey, we have an overarching framework that has specific API S in terms of what it requires and verification, but giving some of that power back to them to kind of operate in that box and then they have control of, of their specific piece of automation that kind of flows up into our overarching orchestration or, or automation tools um leverage and, and again, but they also can leverage various other tools like Pulumi, for example, in, in, in our case, um to for, for the specific purposes, but um giving them some self service but putting some guard rails on overall, it, it seems to kind of uh be a good balance and, and enlisting them to help solve this problem. As opposed to just saying, oh, we'll build this uh uh you know, of, of a platform that's super easy to use because we, we, we'll always be resource constrained and never be able to kind of keep up. And so we're trying to develop kind of a little bit of a hybrid there if that makes sense, that does. I know uh you know, Dan has to walk the balance, uh the walk the same type rope that we all do. Any, any words of wisdom on the the balance between the two. Yeah, I mean, I think so. It's interesting because I always, when speaking with customers, we talk about the three transformations that are necessary to move into the cloud. The first is technological, we all understand about these things. If you got a relational database in your one data center and you know, you're going to move to the cloud, you have to look at different technologies. And the second is the one we've been talking about the cloud engineering and so forth. So moving to a continuous deployment type mindset to an end to end ownership mindset, all that. The third is the financial transformation. So all of a sudden your it costs are going from a procurement cycle of capital expenditures into a, hey, an engineer walks in today and she spins up an instance of snowflake and you know, fortunately snowflake is of course affordable and uh it has a great, no free but you never know. Uh And so yeah, you have to kind of put some controls in place. And I think what, what we find is that really, it needs to be cultural because I think if you try to put controls on all these things, you're gonna end up defeating the whole purpose of the cloud. And so it really is, uh it's, it, it, it, it's, it's a challenge. Um But I, I think again, it's these cultural transformations are, are what really has to happen. It's really not about the bits and bytes, it's really about the brains. So, so speaking, so I, I think that's a, that's a good summary. It's, it really is partly the cloud journalism, but also the cultural I'll ask, I'll ask one cultural question which people may not expect to chat about, but you can kind of notice from our backgrounds. We may not all be in traditional office environments uh unless uh Grace works in the most beautiful office of all time. Uh Certainly we're in a hybrid work environment. Right. So we, we've got, you know, cloud engineers that are working from home or working from home part time or it's a, it's a little bit different in terms of how we collaborate. Um I think this trend has been going on for a long time. You know, Pulumi itself is a, you know, remote first um uh culture. Uh There's many companies that are that way. But I think uh certainly in the last few years, we've seen this accelerate. Um Do, are there any, you know, words of wisdom in companies that are sort of struggling with what the right culture in the hybrid environment is and how it affects operational discipline or software engineering or how you think about planning or? Um you know, I think it's uh I know it's a topic that we, we talk about back and forth a lot and uh you know, sometimes it's, you know, hey, you know, how often are the engineers coming into work uh versus, you know, hey, do you meet up casually when you're working across time zones? How do you think about it? So I know I ask Grace to share her experience and we'll sort of look around and, and uh and then summarize. Sure. So for us, you know, we, we've been very fortunate, we have a collaboration platform called Webex, which is both our video platform. Plus also our chat and sharing platform. And so when the pandemic hit, it gave us the opportunity to actually accelerate some innovations we'd already been thinking about in the backlog because suddenly there was a a like a huge demand for a lot of things that we needed to enable the level of collaboration that was really required in this completely virtual world. And no one was expecting everyone to suddenly be in like thousands, tens of thousands of employees and our customers had to suddenly shift to. And so we are fortunate being like the customer zero for the early, early innovations around those things. So things like up time, uh we could create uh notifications in our webex team spaces that would notify us if anything went wrong with any of our developer services, right? That was super important. I think the the level of communication has to go up when you're in these hybrid modes, right? Because as you all probably have experienced, there's a level of fumo that happens, the pockets of your team we like, I wasn't in that meeting, how come I was in that meeting? So from a culture shift, you have to set expectation, reduce the meetings, use the tools at your at your at your fingertips instead for offline collaboration for that transparency, whether it's a SharePoint or confluence and and having that planning in a very transparent location so that anybody can comment on it and give feedback and not have to feel like they have to be in every meeting in order for their opinion to account, in fact, that can all be done offline. And there are plenty of collaboration tools like Webex that can facilitate both the offline and online pieces for that hybrid mode. And as a company, we are completely committed to hybrid work. So working where our employees need to work, whether it's, you know, in a completely virtual mode for their work or being part time in the office. And so that's something we, we are committed to as a company to ensure that uh we understand the needs of both our internal, there are tens of thousands of employees or the needs of our many, many customers that depend on us with webex. Cool Dan, anything to talk about in, in terms of uh your experience in working with hybrid teams across, you know, customers partners. Yeah. Uh you know, I think when the pandemic hit and we all, we just instantly went to 100% you know, work from home organization, um you know, with 40,000 developers and the first thing we notice is that productivity increased, you know, like the number of commits the amount and, you know, per commit, basically people committing on the weekends. And, you know, so we, I think hopefully pre you know, predicted a bit of burnout if we didn't manage it carefully. And, and so I think with us, I mean, one primary concern. At least of mine is inclusiveness and we sort of have this philosophy of leave no employee behind. So the pandemic affects different types of individuals differently, it can affect women differently, it can affect people of color differently. And so we want to make sure that we maintain this inclusive uh inclusive discipline. So we've developed a set of guidelines, for example, we always use video. Um just because so much of what we communicate is, is actually communicated visually and not just, you know, hearing a voice. And also because we want to have this inclusive environment and not everyone's voice is heard equally loudly, um so to speak. So there's that there's no meeting after the meeting. So, you know, in the old days, you'd have a meeting and then everyone would walk out in the hall in the hall and then the real meeting would happen. So we, we talk about no meeting after the meeting, making sure everyone's included in the decision making uh process. And so we have a couple of tools like that. Zoom. So Zoom is a big customer of oracle and we're probably running on Oracle cloud right now for this conversation. But uh you know, we wanna make sure that we're using that technology in every single meeting. So I think things, things like that help people feel included and really it's inclusion. That's the bottom line issue at stake here. Yeah, Justin, you had to navigate hybrid work while you were growing like crazy. But yeah, I was gonna say the other two organizations on here are, are very much larger. But, uh I'd say we went through kind of our hybrid growth phase. Uh, when, when we went public it was actually built and, um, you know, it was, uh during the pandemic and so we've gone through this massive growth phase. There's probably, I'd say 50% of my team that for a while I had never met in person. Uh It was kind of an odd thing. Um And we started coming back, but what I'll say is a couple of things the way we managed through it first up, I'll echo Dan's point about burnout. Um While productivity went out, people really, especially after the first year, we started to see a lot of burnout and, and odd, odd frustrations or behaviors. And so we, and stuff like kind of adopted what we call these snow days. And so there are these random days that we just give people off and they just take them off and, and it, it was surprisingly, at first, it was like, I don't know, that was surprisingly effective. Um I'd say second of all, we started to adopt more of kind of an asynchronous work culture. Previously, we were very synchronous in terms of meetings, presentations. We really started to look at how do we adopt um some of the policies even Amazon has around six pages and such uh of, of documenting and commenting and then showing up for a conversation. But trying to let people especially uh internationally be able in different time zones, be able to interact and kind of um grow. I think that's really important. Um And the third piece is while we are um we operate in kind of a hybrid mode, but I think we haven't, we haven't lost the value that the, the, the fidelity of in-person communication and interaction is actually really an important thing. And so I'm actually sitting in our offices right now, we've opened our offices and we're encouraging people to come back as they feel comfortable when they feel comfortable. And I think also taking a little bit of a, um we'll, we'll try out various things and iterate in terms of what that hybrid work philosophy looks like going forward. Um So, you know, I think this is almost now woven into the snowflake culture because we, we almost built that culture in the pandemic. And so it's hard to separate what it was before versus what it is now. Um And so, II, I, you know, I think we have some core values around still wanting to have a physical presence and in presence uh and physical and, you know, or face to face interactions, but it's certainly not where it was before we kind of this, you know, 9 to 55 days a week. That, that's, I, I don't, I don't know of any company that's really going back to that very few. But, but not us. So I'd say, uh we're navigating through it and, and lastly, I'd say just stay agile. Right. I mean, we, we, a week, a month ago we probably thought something different than we did today than we will in a month from now. And so I think we're just gonna kind of continue to iterate and grow with it uh on what works best for our employees and for our engineers. Yeah. And I think that always learning mindset is uh incredibly important and, and, and care for the employees and, and team as well. So, you know, Pulumi also adopted the uh we didn't, we didn't have a witty name like snow days, but also, you know, we uh we have a summer vacation coming up which I'm sure a lot of us are excited about. But you know, the uh it's so hard to find great engineering talent and nurture that talent. You know, the last thing you want is your, you know, your team burning out on you. And I, I think that is important. So, you know, a lot of times we talk, oh you know, we need to do X, we need to do y we need to comply, we need to scale, we need to grow. But as managers who are leading these teams, you know, we need to take care of our people, you know, first and foremost and uh and make sure we show our gratitude. So I think with that, it's, it's a great closing for, for me to show my gratitude for you guys, uh Justin Grace and Dan for sharing some time um and the benefit of your experience. And um I think uh you know, all of us as you know, cloud engineering leaders, um you know, are, are consistently going through these uh problems kind of to build on, on Justin's. We're always learning. Um You know, the culture shift is always going on. Uh you know, today's culture, you know, as great as it is, it will be different, you know, a few years from now, it'll be different way different, you know, 10 years from now. Um You know, in addition to our, our businesses changing um and bringing that, you know, software engineering, you know, discipline as, as software engineering continues to evolve with better tools, techniques, workflow. Um you know, asynchronous work. Um We need to make sure we continue to, to take the best of software engineering and bring that to, you know, cloud engineering. Um So with that, I wanna, I wanna thank the people that uh that watched this far uh for spending some time with us. Uh And I hope you have a great day. Have a great night. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.

---
