---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Pulumipus Goes to KubeCon EU!"
title: "PulumiVision - Pulumipus Goes to KubeCon EU!"
meta_desc: |
    We are wrapping up KubeCon EU with a stream discussing some of our favorite highlights, live from the show floor! Featuring David Flanagan and Matt...
url_slug: pulumivision-pulumipus-goes-kubecon-eu
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Pulumipus Goes to KubeCon EU!"
  description: |
    We are wrapping up KubeCon EU with a stream discussing some of our favorite highlights, live from the show floor! Featuring David Flanagan and Matty Stratton - plus some surprise guests!
  sortable_date: 2022-05-20T21:40:04Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/kKQ5hPmkLFc
transcript: |
    Off to something. You're, you're, you're, uh, we're live streaming. I think we're here at Cuban and stuff. Are you? I think so. We're like Paris. Do you have to run off or can you talk for a few minutes? Ok. OK. All right. So we are back here at, look at the camera at, uh, coupon. Eu I am Maddie Stratton. I'm here at the Pulumi booth and, uh, joining me for two seconds, two seconds is Paris Pitman. So Paris, uh, could you describe your week at coupon in five words or less? Um No, fair, fair point. Um 00, wait, did you, did you take yourself, did you get yourself some Pulumi cat ears? No, I didn't actually can. I can. Yes, that's, that's, that's so I think so. Let's hear it here. Give me, give me a pair. So this was really, actually, you know, Paris, you blew it when I said, well, when I said, describe coupon in five words or less, the real answer is, um, a really great fun time with cat ears. Shoot. There we go. So, uh, the cat cat ear has been the, the swag of the event. But Uh, yeah, we're sitting here at the Pulumi Booth, uh, Paris, if you have to run. That's ok. Yeah. No, I'm going to seek security. Everybody. Check out all the security talks this time. It's been an awesome show for supply chain security, CNET security. Uh, and just all, all around security. So I think the show has had awesome representation there and I can't wait to watch all the recordings, but I'm gonna go give some, some love to Ian and Tabitha with six security for Cotti and check that out. All right, thanks Paris. All right. Who's, who's gonna join me next, David? Why don't you come on over here? Oh, ok. Good. Awesome. Um So again, joining me here is a developer advocate at uh Pulumi uh David Flanagan. You may know him better as rock code. Uh So David, how would you describe your experience at uh at K eu uh back here in person in five words? Or have I got car blanche? You have as many words as you want because this is our stream. Well, I'll do the five words approach. It's, it's all about the people. Uh What I've loved here is that I've been able to take github handles and Twitter profile photos and turn them into real people and just being able to catch up and say hello to so many people, many for the first time and many that we've not seen in three years. So it's been a phenomenal for that. It's been uh, 11 of the downsides of, you know, kind of being a sponsor and stuff is we, we don't get to, to go to as many talks. So we'll end up having to watch them later. But, uh I do have a talk later this afternoon. It's one of the tail end ones, but at 2 30 Whitney Lee from VM Ware and I will be giving a talk about charting your own course through the cloud native landscape. So it's about learning styles. Uh One of the things I will say, it's been really, really great to see how many people um have really been in coming and engaging with us. You know, I mean, the content's been amazing from what I hear. I have a lot of talks to catch up on over the next, you know, once they come up. But um just seeing when people were coming up and had questions about Pulumi and the uh and just their awareness of it, you know, compared to, to maybe before. Uh what are, what are some of the interesting things that people have been talking to you about? Uh with Pulumi with cloud native? Yeah, we, we're seeing a lot of people, a lot of excitement, uh especially around policy and security. A lot of the sessions. You know, if we look at the arcs of coupon over the last three or four years, we've went through that phase of like where it was all about get ups and all about get ups. Uh, we've had a little bit about, um, but security seems to be a really core theme this year and policy is code. Something that Pulumi really excels at has been a really cool topic to just sit down and chat with when it comes to the booth. You know, they're, they're excited about being able to secure their infrastructure and provide a safer platform for their developers. So that's kind of cool. Awesome. Um I'm gonna tag you out for a second and have uh Anna Medina join us from Light Step for a moment. So Anna, welcome, uh Welcome to Pulumi Vision. Uh How is uh how has your week been so far here at Cuban? Happy to be here. Uh It's been a really fun week and a lot of it is just that we get to bring our Cober Netti folks together again. And if you've been working in this space for a while, it's great to finally see everyone after a very long pandemic. And if you're just breaking into the space, it's amazing to finally be able to say, wait, I can actually go to workshops in person. I can actually mentor in person or that really cool person I follow on Twitter. I can actually walk up to them and say, hey, I really love all the contributions you do for such projects. And that's actually really rad and that is what makes things like coupon amazing. Like not only do we have great content, an amazing hallway track of just getting to talk to folks, but just getting to see folks that contribute so much. It's really nice and I really missed it. Getting to hang out with my friends like that. That's also been a lot of fun. So, you're at light step so observably which, you know, it, it handful of people might be interested in. I don't know. Um, what are, what are some of the things maybe in the conversations you've been having or questions or how are, uh do you feel like it's something when you've been talking to people, they're like, they really got a handle on this or they just getting curious about it. What's, what's the uh environment been like? So light light. Last time I was a coupon, I was with the chaos engineering company. So we were starting to see that a lot of folks would come to us and it's like I wanna enjoy chaos, but sometimes, like, I didn't, they didn't really know why the incidents were still being caused. So it's kind of interesting now where I'm coming like third week on Light Up and I kind of get to talk to folks about observably and it seems like a lot of them are in this place where they're like, it's been a really hard pandemic, like having to push so many things digital. Like we really need to have a better flow into our stack or our team is getting really burnt out by having so many different observably monitoring tools. How do we actually start condensing it? And we're also starting to see just a lot more love into like open telemetry into a lot of other projects. Collaborate, co collaborating with one another to really take advantage of that and kind of really push that like build more reliable infrastructure forward. And we have a lot of cool vendors that allow for us to do that. But with observ ability, it's like things are starting to come together better. Like I think people are having an understanding of like, yeah, my couer daddy clusters kind have been on fire. I think it's OK if we spend some extra money to even figure out what is going on. Um So yeah, for me, it's been, it's been really interesting to come at the problems from a different side of the space but still get to the same end solution. We really want our customers to be happy and our systems to be reliable and our clusters to stop breaking. So, you know, we've uh been out here in the expo hall and everything. Um Is there anybody who's like had the like dopest booth? Like what's the coolest thing you've seen? OK, hold on. I need a second to think about. OK, you can think about that. I will say one that I think is cool. I didn't get a chance to like, try it. But so Microsoft here because their cloud gaming all runs on Kubernetes, they've got like, you know, for the set up and it's set up with like the full steering wheel driving experience. And I, I really feel like I need to go try that and I also do need to find out because Chris Short, uh, when I talked to him last week, he said he's never played Forza, but he feels like he's so amazingly good at every driving game that's ever been done that he felt he was gonna dominate. So we got to find out how Chris actually did. Um So I think the Microsoft booth is great. I also found out last night way too late that the Aws Booth has Diet Coke and it was a bummer for me to find this out at the end of the conference, but that's where I'll be going after this stream. So I actually did not know Microsoft had that. I've seen the sign that says four of four and not knowing the connection of like, oh, this is actually Cooper Netti is involved. That's actually even Rod and I wanna go check it out. Um But first, I feel like you just challenge Chris, Chris into you being a better for driver than him. But I would also say like, I love car racing games and like that is literally one of the best categories in my opinion, to be playing I got into for, no, I hate them. Like, it's just terrible. Like, maybe it's a too realistic experience but I can't drive, like, it just ends there like I'm constantly crashing. Um, but I think you, what you mentioned with Aws Booth having Diet Coke, I also found out they had a little in espresso, so I'm actually headed there. Um, and I'm actually gonna go explore some of the other booths just to see what other cool things are out there. So, I mean, this is actually the real important content we're here for. So if I, if I'm understanding correctly, he said you've played the Forza games but you don't like them at all. But what, what, what, what driving game do you really like? I'm gonna need for speed. Ok, I mean, to me, I still go old school grand trees. Ok. I can respect that. I still think Need for speed underground is the best. I'm ok. Now play need for Speed heat on my Xbox. Like I'll take it. I feel like it's also funny to like in my head, there's still this part of me that's like talking about Grand charisma is like OG and I'm like, I remember when Grand remo like blew your mind. But um the um let's see who are, I'm also gonna see if we can just find random people that they walk by. Well, you know what, while we're on. Thank you um for joining for the moment. I'm gonna bring in somebody else, but we have Kai. Exactly. Kai, come on in. All right. Uh Kai, why intro introduce yourself? Tell us a little bit about your uh coupon experience so far. Uh I'm Kai, I'm a developer advocate at co and this is my first ever coupon, uh my first big tech conference. Um And yeah, it's been intense, but the top most thing for me is that it's just incredible to see people face to face and just hang out with names and faces off of Twitter and, and like various live streams and go like, oh, you're taller than I imagined that seems to be happening quite a bit. And actually there's like a meme going around on Twitter right now, which is like, guess how tall I am. And as uh one of my friends said, he said, what I've learned so far is I'm very bad at guessing how tall people are. Um The what? So, so kai you're uh tell, tell, you know, maybe you've been having conversations, you know, again, we talk about, you know, people, the attendees, everyone has kind of different stuff. What are, what are some of the interesting questions, maybe that you're getting or topics that, you know, maybe caught you a little by surprise. So, is a sort of cloud native um platform. So we, we're a cloud provider that is all the way down and we, we were in public beta for about a year and a half. And, um, this is like the first kind of experience where we've seen people come to the booth and use our platform. Then I'm able to actually physically observe them using it and going, oh, this is how you see things because, you know, sometimes you don't see the wood for the trees and it's just that kind of thing of, of, of seeing, seeing somebody react to stuff that we're doing in real time is just been pretty neat. I think that's one of the things compared to, you know, so we were at Cuban North America in the fall which was much smaller as again, we were just starting to kind of get back and seeing for us at Pulumi, you know, seeing how many people were, were coming up who were not only people who were familiar with Pulumi, but just lots of people who are users of Pulumi who had all different kinds of questions, some very specific questions, some just like, why would I use this? But, you know, we've had a bunch of really interesting, um you know, two weeks ago, we had a whole bunch of new features released. We had our big launch and it's, it's been kind of rad to sort of see how folks out there when we talk to them. What are the things that are resonating, you know, and you know, the idea actually the YAML support and how you can kind of build something using Yaml as a framework around it. But then have these multi-language components that create that abstraction is, is showing so much of the art of the possible. And I think it's, it's been really, really great to see how engaged people are too. Like, yeah, I don't, you know, we've been seeing tons of people coming by. It's Friday and we still right before we're doing this stream. I was like, I don't know if we're gonna be able to do this stream because there's so many people wanting to come to the booth. You wouldn't expect that. But they're not coming. I can tell you they ain't coming for swag because we ain't got any, everyone's out of swag because we all had to order all this stuff a couple of months ago and had no idea how many people were gonna be here. So it was uh we, we, we have some stickers and hair ties left. Uh But that said, you know, come to Coupon North America, we will have more cat ears that, that I can, I can assure you, um Besides, you know, the obviously best swag here, what's, what's the other? Have you seen anything else? Kind of clever and interesting uh that any vendors are doing so launch darkly. It's Friday. A lot of us haven't slept for a couple of days launch darkly are doing uh like energy drink infusion stuff, which is absolute genius. I did not know that. So I'm going to the Aws booth to get my Diet Coke and I didn't know the Aws was doing Diet Coke, which is a Godsend. And then I'll have to go to the launch darkly. And then I have a talk at 2 30 which will be a 35 minute talk. That will probably be seven minutes long as we get all the way through it. Uh Let's see who else? Uh So, all right. Awesome Kai. Well, thanks for popping in. Thanks for having me. Uh Tim. Where are you going? No, I, I I'm the one that has to give a talk this afternoon and I'm the one that's gonna lose the voice by talking the whole time. So we're gonna let you talk. Ok. So welcome. Uh Welcome to Pulumi Vision uh Mr Davis. Um Why don't you uh let us know a little bit about like, how would you describe your Cube Con experience so far? Yeah, so uh Q con has been great for me. It's been awesome seeing so many great people here catching up with a lot of friends. It seems there's been a lot of great sessions going on. Unfortunately, I've been in here um but it, it's been great uh as compared to like when we were in L A for the last one, you know, there was 3000 people and most of it was vendors. Uh It's been very, very different here. Lots of great conversations, uh lots of great stuff going on, so, uh very happy to be here. Awesome. Um What kind of so at your booth? Uh What are, what are some of the interesting uh conversation you're having that maybe are catching you by surprise? Yeah. Um, you know, with us now having native Kubernetes support, um, we're having a lot of great conversations on, uh you know, folks that are interested in what we have to do, you know, lots of continuous delivery, continuous deployment conversations and, uh, stuff like that. Awesome. I just saw, um, Farrah from Aws wander by and she doesn't know it, but I'm gonna make her come, get on the stream. Hey, Farrah a it's fine. Put the ears on and you'll be fine. Nobody look at Farrah's hair, join, join us for just a minute. So joined by, uh, uh, so far. Tell me like you, you've been, uh seeing a lot of different folks, a lot of different conversations. Uh, what we're sort of, yeah. What are some of the most interesting conversations you feel like you might have been having or, or things maybe catching you by surprise here at, uh, coupon this week? Wow, that's a, that's a big question. I don't know. I, I feel like mostly what I've heard is how excited everybody is. Uh, how, how excited everybody is to be back, uh, at a conference and, you know, uh seeing folks that they haven't seen for so long. Um, it's actually really, really inspiring just to be with people again and just kind of like, talk to what everybody's been up to for the last two years. We were discussing earlier about like, which, you know, uh, which boots had the best stuff. And I was saying how I didn't know until last night when you told me that you had diet Coke at the Aws Boots. So, although I heard launch darkly has energy drinks today. So it's gonna be, everyone's gonna be real tweets. It'll be amazing. We think we need that on Friday though. I do. I think everybody needs a little bit of energy. I have three Red Bulls in my bag. So, uh, and it's Coke Zero. Caffeine. That's caffeine too. So, well, Diet Coke has coffee, there's coffee, there's chocolate, there's all kinds of things that they ate of us booth today. So, fun story about Coke Zero having caffeine. So my mother barely ever drinks caffeine. It has a pretty potent effect on her. And years ago she was over at my house and we were working on something and I was, we had Coke zero and she had quite a few and I was like, mom, are you sure you want more? And she goes well, it says zero. That means zero caffeine, right? I'm pretty sure my mom didn't sleep for like three weeks after that. So, uh, it does not mean zero caffeine. It's just uh, 00 sugar. Um, so what are, are there any, uh, I don't know, we're all my, my brain's gone too. I, I can't, I have barely have anything to say today. My, my voice is about out. I am looking at Giants form, remem remembering the party from last night and how amazing some of these parties have been. Well, yeah. Can we just take just a minute and then I'll let you go. So Aws uh hosted this uh open source after dark event two nights ago. That was really, really cool. What do you think it was like, just like two of the really cool things about it that people might, you know, just so if you're watching the stream and you weren't here just so you can have full on fomo. Well, uh I think it's at the place where they film Westworld or the upcoming uh Westworld and we had robot dancers and who does not like robot dancers? Robot dancers are always, are always good. Well, Farrah, thanks for, thanks for popping in. Uh I'll let you go. Uh have several Red Bulls and you know, go talk to your community and thanks for joining us. Thank you. Yes, Marcus. Come on in. So Marcus, welcome to Pulumi Vision. Thank you very much. Glad to be here. So, uh how would you if you think about this? Uh how many coup camps have you been to? So, this is my first in person one. And yeah, it, it's incredible. Like I've been, I've attended the virtual ones during the pandemic and stuff. But yeah, to be here in person is just a whole of the level. Yeah. Fantastic. Fantastic. So, yes, so Giant Swarm, we were just talking to Faro about the Aws party the other night. Giant Swarm had apparently like the killer party last night, you know, uh What, what was the highlight of that for you? Just the people, all, all the people there and getting to, getting to talk to everybody and, you know, have fun and, and just kind of unwind and stuff. It was, yeah, it was exactly what was needed. What are, uh, what are some of the, you know, when people are coming to the booth, the conversations you're having in the hallway track and everything? Is there anything that's like standing out that maybe kind of surprised you, you weren't expecting to talk about? Um, a little bit. Yeah. So there's a, there's a, I was quite surprised by the number of, um, old financial kind of institutes and stuff that are, are looking to move more into the cloud native and, uh, into Cuba itself and things like that. Um, and some of the challenges that, that they've got around, that sort of thing is, is really interesting to hear about. Um, there's a lot of, uh, not necessarily what was unexpected, but I've seen a lot of people talking about security. So it's a big thing this year. Um, as it should be. Um, like, you know, with this chain guard here, there's a six to everybody seems to be, you know, trying to, to get around to sort out their security and, and all that kind of thing and, yeah, excellent. Um, so, uh, you know, our booths are right across from each other and so I'm slightly embarrassed but like, can you tell me what the heck you guys do? Yeah, sure. So giant Swarm, um we offer managed cub but we kind of offer day one production managed Cuber, right? So, whereas you go to the cloud providing, you get their managed Cuber, really all you're getting is, you know, a managed control plane, right? You can't start running in production from day one. What we do is we provide a way of creating clusters that um are ready to go. So there's ingress controllers in place, there's operations, stuff in place, there's monitoring and alerting. So we will monitor all the clusters, the infrastructure and stuff and then act as the SRE team. So if there's any, any alerts and stuff for the infrastructure, we get paid day on and I and we respond to it if any of those issues are related to our customers workload, which we may not necessarily have the ability to, to fix, we are there to help them fix it. Um So they kind of, you know, the the marketing spiel is we, we, we're selling peace of mind, right? We're, we're taking away the complexity of Cuba is so that our customers can focus on building the things that make them money. You know, they're not making money from Cuba, they're making money from whatever. And that's, that's, that's basically what we're trying to do and that's really key and that's just a good takeaway for everybody, you know, always focus on your differentiator. Um When I was uh before I was at Pulumi and I was working at Red Hat, I was working primarily like helping people in the public sector. And I always say, I said, hey, are you the National Department of Continuous Delivery? No. Right. Same thing, you know, I, I work at this company, we sell shoes, we don't build pipelines, you know, and uh focus on the thing that, that makes you special for sure. Um Is there anything that if someone was coming to their coupon for the first time, especially coming back after pandemic or whatever? Maybe people are thinking about coming to, to Coupon, North America and Detroit or maybe coming next year in Amsterdam. Like, what, what advice do you wish? Someone had told you for your first time at coupon? So take it easy. There's a, there's a lot here, there's a lot of people, a lot of talks don't try and do everything. Um Just kind of enjoy yourself, take things as they come and talk to people, the people are what make this, it's this fantastic community and I've got so much out of just talking with people and, and things like that. It's, yeah, folks on the people. Awesome. Awesome. Well, thanks for joining. I appreciate it. Enjoy the rest of your day. Make sure, you know, I don't know. What are you doing at 2 30? Oh, I don't know what I'm gonna do 2 30. You're coming to see my talk? Ok. So look it up on sketch. It's in the student track. So awesome. Thank you. What's that? All right. Hey, welcome to Pulumi Vision. That's it. Nice to be here. Awesome. Um So is this uh how many coupons have you been to? Uh good question like four? Oh, ok. Great. Well, you know, I'm gonna give you the mic. I want you to tell me how does this compare to your previous coupon experiences? That's good. So this is pretty good because the last one was virtual. So compared to that, you know, I guess that this is really nice. That's an unfair comparison. But I remember being in the Barcelona one and also in San Diego. Uh And I think that this is great, like the weather is great, the venue is great. Uh Lots of very interesting people here and mostly I'm, I think that I'm figuring out how this conference works like this. We are here just to meet people and just to make connection and, you know, see great talks, but at the same time, you know, just build these relationships. So when you go back home, you can just keep in touch, you know, and I think that's the most valuable part, part of the conference. Awesome. Um Can you tell me uh what, what is, so you've been to a bunch of talks? Yeah. OK. What, what's some of the stuff that's like stood out that really, I know it's about the people but also the content because the content helps us to have things to talk about what's like really kind of stood out to you about the trucks. Yeah. So most of the things that I really like is like uh seeing companies sharing their expertise, there was like a very good presentation about like Mercedes Benz and how many classes they are migrating and keeping update. So that's really good. That's really good. Also like about platform building. How do you build kind of these platform engineering teams that are basically creating tools for developers to be productive? And that's, that's mind blowing the the amount of stuff that is happening in that space is huge. So super cool, super cool. And I, I think one thing that's really awesome is like the diversity of topics, you know, so you can have a lot of like you said, some of them are like experience, this is what we did. But then we'll have talks like yesterday, I went to you know, Nancy Lancaster and Karen Chu about community management. And it was a really full talk, you know, and lots of questions because I think people, even if you're not a community manager, we're all here in the community and are kind of like, I'm really interested to know how that works. We need to understand how that works. And, and also like understanding how like larger projects do governance, for example, how do they basically manage infrastructure, how do they build stuff? It's pretty important and that's not so easy to learn. Unless you meet these groups, you get like share ideas and share experiences. Absolutely. Absolutely. So, you know, you're, you're a veteran of coupons and stuff. So if people are looking to, to join in the future, like what's the, what's like the key thing to always remember when you come to Kon, the key thing that I remember when I come to Cuban, uh I would say that just keep meeting, make, keep making new friends, make sure that you check the schedule before uh you start the day, like when you're having breakfast. So, you know exactly where you're going because this is a pretty large conference and you need to ba basically plan ahead. Excellent. Well, thank you so much. Thanks for joining us. I appreciate it. All right, next, we got Katerina joining us from Teleport. We do love Teleport. Welcome to Pulumi Vision. Thank you for having me. Uh Is this your first coupon. You've been to lots of coupons. Uh This is my fourth coupon. The first one was in Seattle in 2018. So when you're kind of looking at this event versus past ones, what to you like, what's standing out about this coupon this year? Um, definitely different from L A. Uh because it definitely seems more like we're back and, and things are happening and it's great that we have masks and we can do it in a safer fashion. Uh But definitely great energy in the room and a lot of excitement and great topics. So it's definitely great to be back and be able to meet everybody in person that definitely stands out from a lot of them. What has been the highlight of your week so far? Definitely meeting the people. I mean, that, that's, that's part of it. We're all here for, for community building relationships. That's the glue of um all of these technologies in my opinion. Um The tech is great, but that's the people who have the challenges you're talking to people who are trying to solve their pain points and find solutions to that problem. So even if we say it's B to B marketing, you're still talking to another human being at the end of it. So meeting people and having these meaningful conversations and interactions has been the highlight so far. So when you're meeting people and they're coming up, like do lots of people know what teleports about are they? What, what kind of is because we've been seeing here, like, at Pulumi, it's been really interesting to see the shift over time of how many folks were. I mean, obviously we had a lot of folks who were like, all right, what, you know, you get the, ok. Tell me what you do here, right. But a lot more of, oh, I've heard about this. Tell me more or I'm using this or I have questions or I have this and it seems that evolution. So like what, what of the general uh conversations been like that that you've been having about teleport? Yeah, so definitely, you know, since you've asked about it, generating some buzz and folks walk in, see the booth and they're like, oh, I've, I've seen your name. I've, I've used the community version. I'd love to learn more about enterprise. So folks are asking questions about teleport. Um And I think what's interesting is every coupon, the message is slightly different. So back in 2018, we were asking, can we run state full applications and containers? We're talking about storage and backup. And that seems to be a more kind of more evolved space now and security. We've also kind of folks have already um kind of figured out solutions to their security issues. So now we're talking about different problems and we're talking about developers and how do we support them? And there's a lot of complexity how do we scale? How do we scale without breaking? So that's where teleport kind of comes in and helping scale with the security and infrastructure access. So there are a lot of those conversations going on and yeah, it just, it, it's great to hear the feedback. It's great to hear the questions because that helps us iterate on our solution and provide better. Um Just help the community better. That is awesome. That is awesome. Um So what do you think besides the beautiful weather, the beautiful beach and everything like that? What's been like the most unique thing about this Cuban? Wow, the most unique um Well, selfish, selfishly for me, this is my fourth coupon, but it's the first time I've been able to attend the keynote. So that's been a highlight. Uh I wasn't kind of frantically running around and trying to find booth and was able to sit down and enjoy and there was a great security keynote today. There was a great uh just lots of conversation. So that was a personal highlight. But I think overall um the energy in the room I think, is it, what's the um I mean, it's contagious. So everybody is just asking questions and wants to learn more. And um I think the highlight is not one particular booth or one particular person or interaction. It's the the sum of all of those interactions and um with, with everybody with every single vendor, every individual and every talk. Excellent. Did we get you a pair of uh Pulumi cat ear? Did you get some the other day or? No? Ok, David. Can you grab her something? We will, we, we are. Oh, where did we? Oh, they're over here. Ok. So we, we were very low. We had just held a couple back for, for special guests. So, um this is, uh this has been awesome. Well, fantastic. Um, we look forward to seeing you through the rest of it again. What, what are you doing at 2 30 today? I am walking around and chatting with people. So you are, you are going to the student track and you're coming to see my talk. Absolutely. If you tell me where it is, I will be there, I will take pictures. I'll, I'll, I'll be there and everybody who's watching the event virtually, make sure you tune in for me and Whitney Lee at 2 30 for charting your own course through the cloud native ecosystem um towards the end. So awesome. Uh Well, thanks so much for joining us. And uh do you have anybody else that? And so I think, you know what, we've, we've had a pretty good wrap. Maybe you wanna just join me for a, we'll close this up real quick, some final thoughts. So, uh this has been, this has been really great. This is my uh you know, third cub con second in person, first in person that like felt like for real. Um, first, really big, uh being back amongst the people and it's been great to be here. And I'm hoping that my voice holds out to give my talk this afternoon because my sign language is not so great. Uh And, uh, what are you looking forward to, uh, when you, uh, get home, David? Uh, see my kids. It's pretty important to me and my wife, of course. Uh, but just being able to take some of those conversations that we've had with so many great people here, you know, go back uh collaborate, work together, show more people below me and just, you know, be a valuable member of the open source community. Hopefully. Well, thanks to anybody, uh everybody for tuning in and if you're watching it later, uh don't forget to like, subscribe, follow whatever, whatever the thing is on the platform that you're watching this. And uh we will, as always, we will see you on the internet.

---
