---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Pulumiverse, Package Authoring, Get Involved | July 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
title: "Pulumiverse, Package Authoring, Get Involved | July 2022..."
meta_desc: |
    The July 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse!
url_slug: pulumiverse-package-authoring-get-involved-july-2022-monthly-contributor-community-meeting
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Pulumiverse, Package Authoring, Get Involved | July 2022 | Monthly Contributor Community Meeting"
  description: |
    The July 2022 monthly #oss contributor community meeting for Pulumi and the Pulumiverse! â–º Agenda notes: https://github.com/pulumiverse/.github â–º Join the Pulumi Community Slack: https://slack.pulumi.com/  ðŸ“‘ Chapters: 00:00 Intro and agenda 01:06 Announcements: RFC for Kubernetes Patch/Apply 04:03 Topic 1: The Pulumiverse overview 10:12 Topic 2: The Package Authoring Experience 21:36 Topic 3: Getting involved 36:40 Shoutouts and Closing  Next month we will have the gallery view.
  sortable_date: 2022-07-13T20:18:18Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/MJHpv_ApAr0
transcript: |
    All right, welcome to the Pulumi community contributor meeting. That's a mouthful for July 2022. My name is Laura Santa Maria and I am a developer advocate here at Pulumi. Um I am your moderator for today mostly here just to help make sure everyone is heard. Uh This is a community meeting and it is being recorded and will be posted publicly to youtube. So please be cognizant of uh what you are saying. Uh We do have a code of conduct, so please do be excellent to one another and I am posting the agenda seeing the chat for anyone who wants to see it. Um And with that in mind, um we do have one or two small announcements, well, maybe not so small, but I'm going to hand it directly off to Levi who might like to just let y'all know what happened with a recent RFC for Kubernetes. So, Levi if you would like to say hi to everybody and just tell folks the exciting thing about RFC S everyone. Uh So we, we have a, a feature request dating back from 2018. Uh This is uh one of our longest running feature requests. This was the cober 90 to patch apply work. Um Basically, this had been on hold for uh several years. Uh while we were waiting for the, the server side to play feature to be uh stabilized upstream. Uh Now that that was available, we wrote up a RFC a couple of months ago. I've, I've linked that there on the agenda. Uh So I, I think going forward, this is going to, to try to be more of the process we do for these big ambiguous type features like this. So um we would love to get people involved uh with comments for use cases or the, the direction that we've proposed, this particular one has been uh accepted and the, the initial release went out yesterday, we're still doing some testing. It's, it's gated behind a future flag, but we got a lot of really useful comments from the community. And I, I think that that process worked really well. So like happy, happy for people to chime in on that process or future RFC S that we put up and you all are welcome to unmute and chat. I'll just like great work on it. Um It feels like literally a week ago, we were having conversations about how to make this work and I, I'm just really amazed and it started that we have something delivered so quickly. I can't wait to play with it. So, thank you. Bye bye. Yeah, really excited about this and it was definitely a community effort. I think we tend to have our own perspective on things. So getting different perspectives, especially on use cases, helps uncover things that we missed. And I think the the feature design is much stronger than it was initially after having this public art, right? And so now we get into the the fun meat of the agenda. Everyone's gotten a chance to vote on the topics. Um And we will be continuing to do this moving forward with the agenda. Uh So keep an eye on the contribute channel in slack. But for now, we're gonna talk about the Pulumi verse because a lot of people are interested. Um I have my, my expert Pulumi Vers n person David here who is going to just kind of give us a quick overview, but this is a discussion. So please do feel free to chime in ask questions. Um If you have no idea what the Pulumi verse is, hopefully David can give a quick overview and then we'll, we'll dive in. So David have fun. All right. Am I OK? To share my screen? I think you can ask and then it gives me a prompt. Let me see. Uh Let me make you a co-host. That's, I think that's how I would do that. There we go. Now, you should be able to share your screen, I think. All right. Thank you, Laura. Yeah, I, I'll just share it for a moment. Um You can see that right. Yes, we can. Ok. So this is the Pulumi Verse organization on github. It is uh an open organization that we uh have a board for and we are starting to build out and encourage and provide a place for the community to be more involved with the living ecosystem and packaging. So the Pulumi Verse is a, is a place for all of these providers and components and packages. Anything that doesn't necessarily belong under github dot com slash Pulumi where people can uh bring us experimental support for cloud providers uh or bring us new abstractions for Cotti or anything else. Like what we want to do is provide a space where you can take that idea that you can use within your vision and share that with the broader Pulumi community. We, we hope that this will help discovery and hook into the registry. Plus, you'll get some active support from the preliminaries and from Pulumi staff as well. So even if you've got like a half baked idea and you just need a little bit of assistance to really cement it and get it working. The Pulumi hopefully will be a great place for you to bring it and get that support and share it with everybody. There's much more details on our file here. So props to, to Ringo and Simon who have been really taking charge of this over the last weeks and months and bells know the articles of association and describing who the board members are. Oh, well, let's not click that link. Uh I'm pretty sure most of these links do work and I may get very unlucky there at the moment. We're still early in a Pulumi journey. Um, but you'll see that we have our own infrastructure which is, you know, coded with poll. We want that to be an example of what you can do with Poum as well as a few providers that have been brought forward by members of the community that they want to raise awareness of and get support with. Uh So, you know, thank you to Lee Brexit, donated to the scale based provider. We put the concourse provider for Ringo and a few other bits and pieces. We want this to be a place where you can come and learn how to build Pulumi um components and packages. We, we know that there's, there's work to be done there to make this easier and so you can come and open issues. Uh We also have uh some guides for the Terra Farm. If you're coming from Terra Farm, I want to migrate and we have the awesome Pulumi list which we're hoping to add more and more resources to it as well. Um with lots of links to books and good articles and videos and uh and just in line with the Kubernetes thing, we have the Kubernetes SDK package, but we're trying to improve our support for some of the more popular Kubernetes package. Um I wasn't planning on doing an overview of the PLO, so I hope that this is painted it in a good light. I hope you understand what our, our motives and our message is and I would encourage you all to, to come along and, and get involved. If there are any questions, I'll be happy. I'm OK with no questions to my feelings are not hard, no problem. And I did only give David about 30 minutes to put together his overview. So thank you, David. Go ahead. Looks absolutely phenomenal. Everyone. I'm really excited to dive in and get a little bit more information about this uh available information. So thank you for doing that. Also, just as a note, if you're not comfortable unm muting, you can always leave a note in the Zoom chat and I will make sure that gets read out. Uh It looks like someone has some projects to ask about in Slack and to bring over soon. So that's exciting. Yay. We're excited to have more people participating and the polymerase. Yeah. And please feel free to, you know, to reach out to anyone that's on the, you know, listed on the, the people aspect of the verse. We're all in accumulated slack and you can DM us or as publicly whatever you're more comfortable with and we'll do our best to guide you and help you. Hopefully I'll speak to you soon. Yeah, thank you. Looking forward to chatting with your guest. It seems like this would be an awesome place to put a lot of our boiler plate um, because we could stick those with guides on how to use them. And I think that would be really helpful as essentially separate domains for here's Pulumi stuff versus here is uh resources for you to go and build Pulumi stuff. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Definitely. I think it would be a good home for, uh, you know, uh, skeleton boiler plates and code generators and stuff like that. Right. Well, I'm going to switch topic two and topic three because I feel like they're, they're kind of related but three is a little closer to, uh, topic, one sort of in a lot of different ways. And so we're gonna talk a little bit about improving the package authoring experience. Now, um, this was a topic that a couple of folks brought up and ended up getting highly voted, um, about how to go in and build packages, but also how to maybe make that a little easier. Um, we have on the line, Aaron, uh Free who is one of our engineers as well as Ian and Alex. Um, but Aaron I'm gonna have you be the one to kind of start as the spokesperson and then you can punt to people if you can just kind of give like a rough, very short overview so that we can kind of get the conversation started and then we'll, everybody can start talking all at once or maybe not all at once kind of all at once. Er Go ahead, take it away. Yeah. Thank you. Um Yeah. Uh I think in line with this vision of, of a Pulumi verse, we want to enable more folks to manage more kinds of resources in Pulumi. And uh we have a number of those community contributed writers, but we know that the authoring experience isn't as easy as we'd like it to be. Um So we're looking at uh exploring some, we've done some hack projects internally. Uh Big shout out to uh Ian who's on this call um for our most recent uh hack project on, on having a sort of a, a simplified GO SDK for uh creating resources or, or creating a provider um in GO. And so we're looking at ways that we could um engage with uh the community um and also author some improved tooling so that uh it's a little bit easier to get started. Um There are some big paper cuts, I think with the process right now. Um uh They're definitely uh there, it's possible to overcome them. Um But we want to smooth those away um So that everyone can contribute something if you have a, I think a common case is that if a platform team is owning some sort of api for managing something internally, uh We wanna make it fairly easy for them to author uh plume programs that manage uh the resources represented by those API S um without a, a huge amount of effort or lift to maintain that uh publish those SDKS for uh the five languages that we now support. Um six if you include YL, although uh publishing that is a little bit easier. So folks, if you have comments about kind of getting in the middle of the package, offering experience or suggestions or things that you would like to help work on, maybe even that would be pretty awesome. If you want to chime in, we would love to hear from you. Yeah, I'm, I'm especially interested if anyone on this call um has looked into creating their own Pulumi package to uh manage something that we don't currently, you know, have support for. Um or if anyone on the call um has looked into uh or even just, you know, tried to read and understand uh how Pulumi packaging works and how the SDKS are generated. Um Really want to talk with those folks about what they've seen, what looks complicated and what we could possibly improve on. Hi there, Sean here, um Sean San and uh at the company that I work for, we have created an internal um provider right now. We have decided to use the dynamic providers as it looks like the barrier to entry to creating our own provider was a bit high and we weren't sure where to start. So after this, I'd love information about where to start with that. But in the meantime, we've been creating our own internal dynamic providers for specifically Doppler. Um And it's been a relatively simple process for creating that. Um But yeah, I would be curious where if we wanted to create a, you know, bare metal actual provider where we might start. Yeah. Um So we do have on the Pulumi website. Uh And I, I think I can be able to pull up a, a link to the docs uh shortly. Um We have some uh ian alluded to boiler plates, uh which are repositories of uh providers written in, in Go Python uh type script. Um I think uh we also have a, a bridge provider for wrapping terraform and then we have what's called AAA native provider, which is um uh authoring uh in pure go. Just the uh if you're familiar with dynamic providers, the create update, delete operations, implementing that in and go. Um But I think the thing that you might have noticed with, with dynamic writers is um using them from other languages is a challenge, right? Um You author it in Python or typescript, I take it that's correct. We use a typescript currently. Yeah. Uh What, what we want to do with, I think improving this um uh package authoring and publishing experience is make the authoring experience for uh what's called a uh a package or a plumy package, which would be um not just a, a provider written in one language, but also the ability to generate those stks so that you can consume it in all of the languages that we support. Uh much simpler. Um And I think we're gonna start out with, with go but Python and typescript are both um excellent candidates for us to follow up with because dynamic for writers um already do a quite a lot of the work there as well. It's fantastic to hear. Thank you. And the question in the chat was, is package here also referring to just providers or also modules. Yeah, I think we have uh a diagram on the website and I actually conveniently I was just there um describing what a Pulumi package is because we have in our glossary of a number of these terms that somewhat uh seems like they overlap. So we have this concept of a Pulumi package which is really the, the whole uh set of things that you could, could be work with. That's um the SDKS for each language, the provider implementation itself, which is typically shipped as a uh a binary or a program or as a package as a dynamic provider in some languages. Um And then something called a, a schema. Uh and the schema is what enables us to project out and generate those sdks for each language using um uh cross code which is our uh term for our code generation facilities. So package would be all inclusive of, of all of those things. What we wanna do is we want to level up the authoring experience of the ecosystem so that it's easy for everyone to contribute an entire package as opposed to. Um it's quite a bit easier, I think uh if people have experience with Pulumi uh uh writing a Pulumi library and publishing it to N PM, for example, that's fairly easy for people to consume from typescript. We want it uh to enable people to consume those from each language. Thanks for clarifying. Um So my name, my name's David. Um I'm really interested in this, this project. So I, I've spent the last couple of years um helping out maintaining and contributing to a lot of on the Terraform side. Um They have like Terraform dash, aws dash whatever um modules. Um I, I was converted over to the, the Pulumi side of things about a, a year or so ago. Um And had the joy of, of moving over um intern at my company around um 1200 terraform modules into to plume stacks and projects um which was was great. But yeah, II, I have noticed some pin points like a lot of things that on the Terraform side, I I would would open source as, as modules um on the Pulumi side are, are currently living inside our, our closed source. Um repos. I would, I would love to, um, and they're, they're all in typescript. I would, I would love to be able to, to package those up as, as packages. It's something that I think I explored many months ago and, and tried on one or two and it didn't work. I got like errors during the code generation. But if there are improvements it's, it's definitely something that I love to keep working on and trying on. Um I do have, I have one question um on if something has been tried or, or thought of before. Um I know how a lot of like the the plume architecture is working right now. Um Is all the providers are running on like their own and, and, and I could be wrong on this. But my understanding is that, that the providers are running as GR PC binaries and then a lot of the communication when you actually want to create something is is happening through um GR PC calls, would it be possible to expose like stubs so that in any language you could create a GR PC binary? And then you could really like, even if you were using Python, you could call a package written in typescript, but you just communicate to it through GR PC as opposed to doing a, a Cogen approach. Um That is an interesting idea. Um It actually, uh I first want to say uh welcome to the ecosystem. Uh You mentioned uh migrating over. Um So, first of all, welcome. And you also mentioned um having some cogen uh issues. Um If you wanted just as a, a an aside to reach out to, to me, it's my last name at Pulumi dot com. Um Or uh if it's something you can share publicly creating an issue on the Pulumi Repo, um We certainly want to take any sort of cogen issues, uh anything that was generating correctly uh and address those. Um uh So those two things aside, um the GR PC approach just exposing those GR PC bindings directly for people to call um in the providers in an UN type way. That's uh it's an interesting idea. Um I don't think we've had a lot of discussion about that internally, but I'm actually reminded of um when I interviewed with Pulumi um some eight months ago, um I happened to talk with Joe, the founder uh about uh Haskell in our interview and he was motivated to create exactly what you mentioned. Um He wrote a very thin chim over our R PC interface so that he could call into uh providers via uh a Haskell program. Um And so it was a very light way way of enabling a language without really having to do a lot of the ceremony. Um So I think that's an interesting approach and um as I think about it, uh sounds more interesting to explore. Definitely cool. Yeah. Um That'd be great. And then I'll, I'll gladly reach out to you on the, the cogen side of things. I'll, I'll try to restart some of those efforts and, uh, we'll reach out if the issues are, are still persisting. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I'm gonna open up the floor for the last topic which is just getting more involved. Um, anybody have any comments, questions, uh, just statements of where they want to start contributing and how maybe we can start making it a little easier to contribute if that's part of the problem or we can, we can hit any roadblocks that folks are needing us to address. Um Generally, this is your time to discuss as a community. Uh It might be interesting to ask um for folks on the call um if they've already uh tried uh creating an issue or making even a, a code contribution to Pulumi or, or any of its repos or any of its providers. Um And if so, what was your experience? Um And, and how could we improve on that? So I've created um an issue about how I believe a Q and A Q policy are treated and the actual um plan that is created to handle that, right? Create update, delete, replace kind of things. Um And it was fine, of course, making an issue, the issue hasn't been addressed, but obviously, it's not something that maybe is a priority. Um What I was curious about is how I can get about actually addressing it myself. Um and fixing it myself. I reached out with our customer support rep um our account manager um to get some info on that and maybe he'll get back to me at some point. But if there's another way that I could get more info about, you know, the update plans, how I can change those, how I can dig in how I could maybe solve that issue myself. I can also post the issue link here. Um Yeah, I would love to be able to fix it myself. I don't wanna just like pawn it off to someone else and be like, hey, you fix this, you know, I, I would love to fix it. I just don't know where to start. So I'll throw in the issue here and maybe someone can point me in the right direction and of course, I did start on the slack first confirming it was an actual issue before going and just throwing in an issue. Well, um thank you for, for creating that issue. Um I guess first of all, I wanna say, uh I'm sorry that uh it, it doesn't look like um we've uh replied to your, your message about being happy to, to help work on this. So uh I'll make sure that we, we get to that. Um I think definitely uh we want to look into that um for uh OK, for the update policy. Yeah. Uh I think I know uh who I can reach out to and make sure that we uh have a reply on this. Um I think especially when anyone replies to an issue with saying, hey, I wanna chip in. Um, we should definitely be uh fairly proactive there and, and pointing them in the right direction. I greatly appreciate that and I look forward to being able to hop in, get a little, a little bit more knowledge on how to actually fix this and maybe, uh be able to contribute in other ways and other issues like this. Uh When it pops up in my experience or when other people have issues, it'd be great to be a part of the community at a deeper level. I will say just kind of taking a very quick peek. I see that this is in the Aws um, Aws Repo. So this is gonna be one of the bridged providers. Uh So I think that might be why there might have been a little bit of hesitation on how, where, where can we point you? Because that one's a little more complicated than some of our native ones sometimes. Um But just, just to make sure we, we know that the, um, what's the words I'm looking for today? The, the bridge providers often have other dependencies like up on the Terraform bridge side. So sometimes there's some stuff there that we need to encourage getting fixed. So there might be some like, hey, would you post it in this repo as well to help kind of drive that. So if you see those kinds of comments, sometimes it's, there's not really much we can do where we are, but it's actually part of the bridge itself that needs to get fixed. So sometimes you'll see that. So just so that, you know, when, when we say that it's not us kind of saying, well, we're gonna push that off. It's more along the lines of we need to find a way together how to move forward overall across everyone who uses infrastructures code and cloud computing. So I appreciate that information. I'd love to learn those uh path traversals as well and those kind of heuristics of go here when this, if that, you know. Yeah. Thank you for that info. You're welcome. I know for me in general, like if somebody posts an issue and I'm trying to help figure it out like on, on slack, they post a question. If I run into a bridge provider, I always know I'm mentally, I'm going, oh no, I have to go figure out where, where did this come from? Where is this piece? How did this get added together? So it's a little bit of a rabbit hole sometimes, but it's a fun rabbit hole if you're into that. So should be a good time. Um Yeah, from, from my experience, I've, I've contributed a few times over the last uh, two years or so. Um, it's been a good experience. Um, a lot of my, my contributions are, are maintaining a project. Um, that's, that's outside of the Pulumi org right now. Um, so that's been, um, I'm the owner but I, I'm interested in maybe bringing that over to the Pulumi first. That, that sounds exciting. Um, we'll chat about that on, on Slack. Um, I've made a few changes to, um, Pulumi, I think I only have one merch pr I've made like AAA few. Um I have one that I've been, uh I've been maintaining a fork um of, of Pulumi for around a year now. Um There's one pr that was kind of, it's, it's, it's hanging in limbo um until the next because it's a, it's a breaking change that they, um I think Joe Duffy mentioned that he would, is interested in releasing it but is, is waiting for the next um major change. Um I was maybe wondering if you guys have, I, I know it's, it's tricky because like when you do releases there are, are multiple SDKS right across the different languages and stuff. I was wondering if um you have any insights into where contributors could look for like, um maybe doing like beta versions of, of beta releases or just how the, the release schedule overall works. Yeah. Um So I'm on the, the platform team. Uh And that may not mean a lot to folks outside of Pulumi. It, for me, it means largely owning the, the engine, which would be the plume Pulumi repo uh cogeneration, which is uh the tool used to generate a lot of those, uh SDKS and other languages. Um And then there's a, a smattering of other repos. Um Then we have, uh, the providers team, which is our, uh, our other open source oriented team which owns mostly the A US, uh Azure GCP, et cetera providers. Um The Terraform uh bridge uh uh a number of the, I think two Pulumi tools as well uh to help get folks onto our platform. Um And uh I can say that it kind of depends uh in terms of, of how to get started where you want to contribute. Um the engine, of course, uh um I would say is, is uh there's a, a number of moving parts to the engine so it can be a little, a little bit tricky. Uh It definitely took me a few months uh to get fully on boarded. Uh And, you know, I, I work here, I was full time um to get on boarded into understanding where to start with things on the engine. Um But if you start with an issue and, and ask uh for pointers on where to get started, um definitely interested. And then I also mentioned those two teams because I think we have different release cadences um for the, the Plumy Cli and the engine, we try to release every 2 to 3 weeks. Um, I think right now it's a, every two weeks rotation, but I, I can double check that. Um, and we do a, a minor release. Um, the providers then will AYC uh, update and update Cogen based off of the most recent Pulumi release. Um, I think we're actually trying to explore long term how we could disaggregate even the Pulumi Pulumi repo. Um Right now you kind of get uh a lot all at once. When you update to a new Pulumi release, you get um new uh language hosts for each of our four main languages and, and, and Java as well. Um I think we want to make it possible for people to opt in to say a beta release of a language, right? So I think as we look towards G Aing um Yaml and java support, uh what would it mean to make a breaking change? We want to be able to make sure that folks can downgrade or switch to a different version of that language, especially for Yaml, where we can actually control the syntax and things like that. Um in terms of making beta releases, we don't currently publish those, but we actually do um every time we make a, a push to the main branch on Pulumi Pulumi, we do publish a, a snapshot. So I think it would be interesting to maybe um on a more frequent cadence, make that available as a like a beta version that you could download and try um to opt in but we do release, try, we try to release pretty frequently to avoid major changes uh in each release. Cool. That's helpful. It's definitely a, an interesting problem with, with all of the different SDKS you're trying to manage it. So I, I definitely sympathize with that. That sounds like uh some good options um coming into the future, I think um related to that we uh had an issue that we created um on the preliminary report uh a week or two ago about dog fooding our own snapshot releases uh or um having sort of a a mode where you could try out uh the early releases of P Pulumi. Would that be something that would be interesting to, to you as well? And, and what would your use case be like for validation or something else? Um large largely for validation um in some sense just to, to reduce kind of um like II I think it's, it's a little bit different problem which is OK. It's, it's still I think useful, but the, the problem I was more interested in is um not just trying out um changes that are on master, but if there was almost like a separate branch that would also publish, that was able to contain breaking changes, um like the one in in reference, um I can just post the, the pr link but it would be a, it would be a breaking change just for the um Pulumi slash A W SNP M package. Um And that's something where like I'm, I'm not sure like they don't want to merge it now because I don't wanna just break the version without doing a, a mid release everywhere. But it's like then how do we actually, how can I use that code without having to fork it and publish my own binaries? Uh I, I clicked on your issue. Uh And, and thanks for sharing that. Yes. Um This uh for anyone who is just joining in um or hasn't clicked the link yet. It's related to making um typescript and TS node which are used for the typescript language support, uh peer dependencies. Um Right now, uh in Pulumi three dot X, uh we pin a specific version of typescript. Um and there are some ways to sort of force uh a higher version of typescript to get some of the new uh syntax support and type checking support. Um But uh it, yeah, it's a breaking change. We, we don't wanna um cause folks uh programs to stop to stop building because we made it a peer dependency. It's a a, it's a tricky issue. It's one that I'm very familiar with and I'm also personally excited to improve on because um there's a lot of room for improvement in the speed of, of the type checking and, and TS note experience. Um and there's a lot of interesting tools out there uh Now, like SWC that could be significant improvements and, and how fast we can run. Uh uh and David S uh uh Deno as well. Uh Yes. Uh There's a lot of interesting uh innovation happening in the No jazz space. And unfortunately, because we've had that pin dependency, um We're kind of frozen on that. We definitely want to fix that. And I think um that dis aggregation or being able to opt into say a AV two or, you know, V four of the No Js language support. That would be very exciting for us. I think if we could uh move in that direction so that we're not moving the entire ecosystem in lockstep because sometimes it's not what all of our, our customers and users want. Yeah, that, that sounded great and, and apologies for taking up too much time on, on this specific issue but, but just more generally on um having those, those breaking changes and being able to support those like per package. I, I think that would be, be really, really cool and, and help things um in general move quick because that's, that's um that sounds pretty exciting. Yeah, I think I can speak for um the fellow folks from the platform team who are on the call, but not on video right now uh that we are very interested in figuring out ways to move the language support. So, right, now we have Yaml and Java and their own repositories. And there are ways we don't have, uh we have not built this into the cli yet. Uh But there are ways to actually run, you know, if you wanted to downgrade your version of Pulumi Yaml, there's a way to do that. Um And we want to build that support into the cli um to be able to support that use case. But we want to also then do that for all of our languages and issues like the one that you just shared are exactly why? Great. That makes good sense. All right. Well, if folks are, are done talking, I'm gonna give everybody just a chance to say more. But also we do wanna add some shout outs to this. Uh So normally what we'll have everybody do is if you want to shout out any other contributor, I'll make sure I collect them and they get posted here to the agenda. I just want to shout out everybody who showed up today. I'm very excited and, and everybody who voted on the first topics for the very first contributor meeting. Um But yeah, just head on over to contribute and slack to shout people out and I'll make sure that gets added and we call them out every month. But any last things you all would like to talk about because obviously, we didn't fill up the whole time. Sometimes that happens in community meetings, sometimes it doesn't. So I wanna give everybody some space to say anything else they'd like to say about being a contributor to Ploy Plumy Verse getting involved. Uh I think I'll say the, the obvious shout out here, which is a shout out to everyone who's made an issue or pull requests to uh any of our open source repos. Um It's uh extremely welcomed and appreciated. Um And uh I can't say thanks enough for all of the, the detailed feedback and bug reports and, and um just incredible, uh incredibly great uh issue descriptions from our community members. All right. And I, I guess that'll just about cover it for today's community meeting. Thank you all for joining us. Um Again, this is gonna be going up on the youtube on Pulumi TV. So you'll be able to view past community meetings there as time goes on. Also the um the agenda notes that I've been taking throughout the meeting will end up on uh the uh the Pulumi verse governance repot, I think is where we decided to drop, drop those so that you can look back at the agendas from prior meetings over time. Um But on that note, thank you all for joining us. I'm very happy everyone could make it and we'll see you next month on the second Wednesday of the month at 10 a.m. Pacific 12 p.m. central. And I don't know where else everybody's time zones are, but at some point in the future. Thank you.

---
