---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud Engineering: Security and Policy"
title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud..."
meta_desc: |
    Join Pulumi Co-founder, Eric Rudder and security experts from Tigera, GitHub, Auth0 and GitLab to learn about emerging security challenges and best...
url_slug: cloud-engineering-summit-2020-future-cloud-engineering-security-policy
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2020: Future of Cloud Engineering: Security and Policy"
  description: |
    Join Pulumi Co-founder, Eric Rudder and security experts from Tigera, GitHub, Auth0 and GitLab to learn about emerging security challenges and best practices
  sortable_date: 2020-11-11T00:29:34Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/72Wfb-R_4lM
transcript: |
    Well, welcome and thanks for being here. Um We're gonna talk a little bit about security and policy and uh I thought I'd kick it off with just a few introductions. So I'll let you guys introduce yourself. I don't want uh introduce yourself. We can start with uh Maya. Sure. I'm Mike Karaki. I'm a product manager working on software supply chain security at github. Nice. Ah, it, hello, my name is Ahmed Gupta. I run product management and business development at we're a company behind uh project. Uh We do networking, network security and observable for community based environments. Nice. And Jonathan, hi, I'm Jonathan Hunt VP of information security at Git Lab. Awesome. So I thought with the uh debates going on in America, lots of uh interesting. I, I thought we'd start with a controversial topic. So I'll go back. I'll start with Jonathan Tabs or Spaces. Oh, I, I guess I, I'd have to go Spaces Spaces. Uh This is interesting. So we have Git Lab and github. So we'll get the official corporate points of view um, at Tabs or Spaces uh Tabs. Oh, wow. So already a controversial panel. This is good. And my, I, I don't know what the official point of view is but I, I use, I use spaces. Whoa, 2 to 1 on spaces. This is, this is terrible. Oh, my God. We're gonna split the, uh, Supreme Court. We're gonna split here too. So, uh, that's us. Ok. So we're warmed up now. I thought, I thought we'd just start with, uh, an interesting thing I saw in the news yesterday that, um, universal health services, you know, had a, uh, a breach yesterday. It's actually the largest health care breach, you know, of medical records ever in the US. So security is definitely on the mind of everybody's topic. But I just thought we'd start with kind of an open ended question and, and talk about, you know, really, what are some of the emerging threats that people see around security and policy? And if you were building, you know, a team today, you know, from scratch and you could sort of design your all-star dream team to think about, you know, security and policy from the beginning. Um, and sort of lock it into your culture. What are some of the things that you'd look for? So, I, I'll start with, uh, with Maya. Yeah, I think, I think there is certainly a shift and I hate already using this term but, uh, around adding security to dev ops. So exactly what you were just saying, around making security part of your culture. The idea of having a separate security team and a separate set of people who's responsible for implementing certain certain controls is kind of changing right there. Obviously, you still have a security team, you still have application of security reviewers or insect people or or whatever, but every everyone is involved in your security decisions, everyone's involved in actually improving the security of your organization. Um So one of the emerging trends I would say in that space is um just embedding security in as part of the development pipeline, having all developers have, have some of that knowledge and tool on it, anything to, to add or build on. Yeah, absolutely. So, Eric, I I agree with you that the security landscape specifically the threat landscape is getting more and more sophisticated and as the applications are being rearchitect to my your point, uh the security as a function has to be involved as part of the, the devops pipeline as early as possible in the in the build pipeline. Now, uh security has to evolve as a enabling function. And as a result, these security teams, they really just have to provide all enablement and everything needed for these ops teams, the teams to be able to enforce, define and implement those security controls. So I absolutely agree with what my, you mentioned that security has to be part of the Devops function and you, you got to hire for talent that actually has uh some level of education and experience building designing, implementing some security controls in addition to the apps functions. Jasmine. Yeah. So I, I'm gonna take a, a bit of a different perspective on, on this question. Um What I can tell you is that what, what I've seen uh is that from 10 years ago to today? Um I'm seeing a lot less, you know, we're gonna try to break into your network through like brute force attacks and we're gonna try to hack our way in and, and move laterally across to your database and ex you know, export all this data out and what we're seeing. Uh And what I've seen over the last several years is more by ways of uh abusing or misusing or exploiting the services that you actually provide legitimately, right? Um And, and so what we're seeing is an increase in like uh abuse of like C I runners crypto mining uh other ways to exploit our platform. And, and you kind of kicked off the question by asking about uh the dream team. And what I can say is much like the other um the other companies being represented on, on this panel. Um We take security very seriously and, and we are fortunate enough, I'm fortunate enough to have been able to build out a, a significant size security organization at, at git lab. And so the two things that I did was um and which might be helpful to some of you is I've built a security research team and a red team to address two different ways of approaching the same problem. So the security research team is designed to um sort of like identify the latest threats the latest zero days, the way is the latest exploitations determine how they can be used to affect our service. Uh and then drive those to mitigation. Whereas the red team then is continuously planning and launching sort of like complex multi chain campaigns against our service and platform using these threats in techniques that are being discovered by the security research team. Um And so, you know, their attempt is to, to move the theoretical into reality. Uh And, and so far, um it's, it's really led to building uh trust with our customers, building trust with the community. Uh and hopefully mitigating a lot of uh you know, real threats and, and vulnerabilities against our platform. Nice. So one thing I thought we that would come up in the first round of answers, but I'll, I'll make it explicit is the uh is one of the changes now is that the, the cloud is kind of uh at least, uh you know, in, in my career, it sort of changed how we think about um certainly the, the security, um you know, perspective and how we construct teams. And so I'll sort of throw out a, a softball like question like what things has the cloud changed? What things is the cloud sort of made easier. What things is the cloud made harder? Um I'll toss it over, I'll toss it over to Maya. Sure. Uh I, I think lots, lots of things have changed and also nothing has changed. So, like, I think a lot of the threats and things that we see are not notably different than before. Um that you get to your infrastructure, like application issues that you might have, you know, basics that everyone's annoyed with, but we still have like cross site scripting, like those are still around for some reason, right? Um Untouched servers, whatever it happens to be. Um I think what changes for me with the cloud and as people kind of move towards new architectures in general is um a lack of understanding of what's actually in, in your environment. I think that makes a huge difference in terms of like if you have, if you went from having a data center that you ran and you knew exactly what was running there because somebody had to provision it who worked on your, on your team versus um you have different sets of developers running in different clouds using different architectures, using different frameworks. It's a lot more for one security team to understand. Um I think, I think so the, the first part is understanding what you actually have like that's, that's much harder with the cloud. And then, and that's, and that's I would say a negative in some sense for security in the sense that you don't necessarily understand your risk because you don't actually understand what you have. Um, and then conversely, I think what the cloud does really well is, um, arguably, you know, short of a handful of very large companies, um, your cloud provider is more secure than you are. So choosing to move a workload to, to a data center run by one of the large cloud providers probably actually gets you a lot of benefits that you wouldn't have. Otherwise you'd have some automatic patching of, of your, of your hardware, some maintenance that's taken care of for you, right? Um Notifications of their security issues that are taken care of for you. Lots of things that are automated on your behalf. And so you kind of get that all in one bundle where a lot of that specialized knowledge, your team doesn't need anymore. Um Again, the problem being that now you have two or three sources for that knowledge rather than one source for that knowledge in your environment. That's great. So I just sort of building on some of the, the things that maya brought up, are there, are there some unique strengths of the cloud that we can sort of build on and, and use to our advantage? Yeah. So I think, I mean, just teeing off from what my he explained. Uh So in a cloud security model, obviously, from a shared responsibility perspective, a whole bunch of things are gonna be taken care of uh by the cloud provider. So a whole lot of things, the user doesn't have to worry about. But as a user uh running applications in the cloud, if you're obviously responsible for securing your applications, your usage of the services and so on. So some of the cloud providers, they do provide a whole bunch of capabilities around how you can leverage some of those knobs to secure your application. But specifically to your question, Eric one of the things that I believe cloud creates a good architecture and the model is it's a very workload centric model. So what it forces security professionals to think about is move their security architecture and approach closer to the applications closer to the workloads. And we certainly see that from a network security perspective, particularly working with our users. I mean, the traditional network security models are not as effective as you go deploy your applications in the cloud. And as a result, designing a security approach that is more tied to your applications and to your workloads is actually a good security architecture, a more effective security architecture and certainly cloud based deployments help in that model. Just one additional thing I would highlight is I mean tradition, it's it's very likely that if you're deploying cloud based application, then you've already, you've already moved to an architecture approach where you built resiliency in the application closer to the application. These are newer architectures and that, in, in, in our opinion, in my opinion, is actually a good pattern and you should design your security uh to that approach as well. Not really just rely on infrastructure components where you put gates or gateways or proxies or appliances to secure the architecture. Well, I think just to, to paraphrase Maya in a, in a lighthearted way, I think a little, she gave a little bit of our her answer was also like the, uh the more things change, the more they stay the same in terms of, you know, everything's changed, nothing's changed. But, um I think some things have changed for, for de team or de up team. And, you know, in the past when, when we did releases, I don't know if you remember release checklists, right, of, of all these things we were supposed to think about before release and now we're releasing many of us uh multiple times per day. And so it's, it's certainly less of a checklist approach. So as, as teams think about, you know, automating their approach, what are, what are some things that are really top of mind, that sort of replace, you know, the sort of the final quality checks and, and how we think about our modern C I CD pipelines in this way, I'll, I'll to it to Jonathan. Yeah. Um Honestly, I recommend, you know, really working closely with your Q A, uh your Q A development orgs to identify areas where automation can uh be a significant benefit. Um And this can happen in multiple ways, right? So static and dynamic analysis, uh dependency scanning, all of these things are easily automated at the developer level on their local host or uh during the SDLC pipeline. So these tools are not only designed to run very quickly, but also speed up your deploy, deploy times versus like running manually. Um And, and arguably you're, you're more secure, right, as you prevent releasing harmful vulnerabilities, uh which are, you know, obviously exploitable by, by malicious actors. Yeah, so I I think the other thing to think about also, we, we've spent most of the time thinking about securities, but there's also policy um implications too as we make um changes to things like GDPR affecting companies and um and other type of things. Are there other specific considerations around policy that people should think about on it? I think uh I would uh I would agree with you, Jonathan in fact, to add to that. Uh I think when you're defining your policy controls or any regulated regulatory framework that you're subject to for your applications running in cloud or elsewhere, uh I believe a very effective mechanism is to define these policies or controls or requirements in a, in a decorative model. So you, you, you define your policies could be as simple as a thou shalt not run privileged mode containers in the in production. Are thou shalt not allow res traffic to 0.000 whatever those policies, regulatory frameworks that you follow. And you have translated that into specific technical security requirements. The the approach, the more effective approach is you write those controls in a declarative model and then have government controls around it. So, and it really depends on the organization. We have seen some organization very effectively do continuous audits around these policies. And if they see violations, there could be actions like, hey, we're gonna kill all deployments that are running containers in privilege mode, that could be one policy requirement or we would, we would kill all requirements that are not encrypting traffic uh inside the cluster. If that's one of the control of requirements you are following from a regulatory framework or you can go as far as saying that we would have um uh controls in place that if you do have a privileged mode container, we won't even let you deploy it in the infrastructure that will be blocked much earlier, right? In your pipeline, in your Q A processes and so on. So I think uh it's, it's, it's uh it's very important and it's also effective. You take those regulatory requirements from GDPR or whatever framework your organization is subject to define those into technical requirements and then figure out collaboratively working with your DEV teams and security teams. Like what approach you're going to take to uh enforce those requirements. Are those uh guidelines or hard frameworks that you need to adhere to because, uh, without that you're, you're subject to some kind of, um, uh, significant violations or penalties. Yeah, I'd like to, I'd like to build on that. I think all of us have sort of talked about how it's really important to sort of work together and bring in, you know, various team members, you know, whether they're security experts or Q A experts or, but when the rubber hits the road, um I'll touch on this one to Maya, what is the actual best way to engage security and policy stakeholders uh in the group? You know, they may not be, you know, as technical as some of the developers and yet, you know, we need to work together. What is the best way to actually make sure that everyone's point of view is represented, I don't know that I have the best way. Um But I, I think that there's a need to obviously separate uh requirements from the controls that you put in place. So there are some regulations that have very strict controls um that, that define very explicitly what they need to be. So like, hi IP A for example, um if you were to lose health care information that was not encrypted, that would have consequences. Now IP A doesn't say encrypt health care information. It says if you lose it and it wasn't encrypted, then there's a different penalty than if you lost it. And it was encrypted. So, like you, you have to translate that set of, of requirements into what's actually important for your organization. Um And what that actually means for your organization. Um I see that for things like dual control encryption requirements, um Key management is a really common one, a couple of other controls, right? There's so many different ways that you can make this work. It really matters in terms of your organization, figuring out what's practical and um and your auditors agreeing with you as so that making that control, making sense for, for your particular organization, how to engage between those different teams. I think having a lot of clarity as to what your exact requirements are documenting them. You know, a common thing to do in a large company would be like a risk register where you actually go and see what all those controls are and then, and then verify that those are being met. But to, to go back to what sort of what was saying, I think that still, you know, that's the reality of 20 years ago. It's still far from the reality where people are today with the cloud and wanting to have declarative policies that automatically apply to their environments and automatically enforce everything they want in their environments. Um Right. That's what we all want. Um The reality is, I don't see anyone there yet. I see people hoping to get there and, and I guess what I would say in that regard to me, the the first step, I mean, obviously, like I said, understanding the controls between your different teams, but like centralizing and, and having a common way of doing some, some of the things that you want to do in your organization, right? Like one of the most powerful security controls isn't a security control. It's just having a consistent way that your team writes, builds tests and deploys code because then you have somewhere to apply any of the the controls that you could imagine in your environment, right? Rather than having to apply it in like five different places. Um so engaging, you know, yes, your policy auditors, et cetera developers, but also your dev ops team or your, your infrastructure team to make sure you can actually implement what you're, what you're setting out to, to implement. Yeah. Anything to add Jonathan in terms of how to actually engage the the key policyholders. Yeah, we have a pretty interesting uh approach at, at git lab. We um as a company, um some people may know this. We are uh tran we we are like radically transparent and I don't know if I'm allowed to, to, to use that terminology, but that's how I that's how I phrase the way the company operates radically transparent. And what that means is our entire handbook is on the web, we livestream company meetings out to youtube, we have all these um sort of like um procedures and processes around ensuring that um the tickets and the issues and, and the projects we're working are open to the for company visibility. So what I think is important is um is, is first II I think may I did a good job at, at, at touching on, on most of this. But the one thing I would add is I think that one thing you can do is um uh work as best as you can work. Um rather than like synchronously like in a meeting like you, everybody has to get on a call at 12 30 we're gonna invite 17 people to that call is try to work as asynchronous as possible. Git lab itself is in uh 100 we have 1300 people in over 100 countries, right? Like we can't possibly get everybody on to a meeting, all of our stakeholder on a meeting at the same time. It's, it's it's literally impossible, right? And um so what we try to do is try to work as asynchronous as possible. Also, how many times have you been in a meeting and come away with direction and requirements and tasks and all of a sudden, oh, we forgot to to invite Maya, we forgot to invite ah right to that meeting and now we've got to start from scratch, right. So uh first and foremost, work the best that you can asynchronous, opening up, you know the information, the documentation to all parties, right? Even to the company, if you can, because you may not properly identify all the stakeholders from the beginning. Uh And so allowing people to the visibility, to uh access those documents, to access those tickets, to access those issues and be able to provide feedback uh when you know, on their time during their work day, um I think is highly advantageous. Um And then the other thing I would say is uh I, I think it's important to um for people to become better communicators, right? I think a lot of times people jump into meetings and they don't even know like they don't have a real agenda set, they don't, they don't have um you know, this is what's expected at this, you know, out of this meeting, right? They'll go into a meeting and they'll say, hey, this is the problem. What do you all think? And then it becomes kind of a part of my term, but a waste of 30 minutes or a waste of an hour, right? Of everybody's time. I think you have to come in and set expectations and understand what the ask is and what you're, what you're intending to accomplish with that meeting and come away with actionable items and events. Um And I think that's the best approach to engaging stakeholders and progressing on, on, on issues of concern. And that was good. You get some good examples on uh on good things. To do and, and, and uh, and less good things to do, shall we say, I'll, I'll build, I'll build on that going forward. I, I'd say so all the, the, so the uh the less good things I'd say that the easiest way to ask the question is, you know, I think we've all seen many companies, you know, you know, moving to the cloud and modernizing their, their application portfolios. What are some of the biggest mistakes that you see customers make? You know, as they, as they go into this transition and, and any words of advice on how to avoid these things go going forward, uh you know, for the benefit of sharing our experience. Yeah, absolutely. So, uh I think if there's one thing I would pick where users strip off or organizations strip off is uh they put security as an afterthought and uh it's not baked in as part of the architecture. And I'll, I'll take a couple of examples to decide how it gets really complex, particularly in a modern application infrastructure or architecture, you start with one cluster, a few nodes, uh four or five services. It's relatively OK at that point. But as you start to become successful and you're moving to four or five clusters and you got hundreds of micro services running many applications potentially in different clouds at that time for you to go back and put security controls in place and rethink about the infrastructure, you're just asking for massive amounts of trouble, rework, wasted time, energy and so on. So if there's one thing I would say, and we have seen this many, many times, we've been working with many users and customers that they're hitting outages, they are hitting service incidents to fix some security requirements. But it's kind of too late to start thinking about that. It's a massive overhaul of the infrastructure. So if there's one thing I would say is uh if folks can think about security, what like secured by design principles, pick whatever principles your organization wanna follow, you wanna minimize that tax surface, you will have multiple layers of difference, you will follow the least privileged model, whatever those principles you want to follow in your design cycle. Think about security at that stage and it's gonna, it's gonna create a lot more value for you as you further evolve your infrastructure, your applications, you, you're further in your journey, you'll actually uh be able to address evolving security requirements in an effective way if you have thought about uh those principles uh early on. So I, I would, I would say that that's one of the most important thing that we have seen uh our users strip up and those who do think about that early on uh definitely benefit from it. Am I any other sort of uh classes of mistakes that you see besides uh designing security and, and policy controls upfront? I think one is in terms of rollouts, different parts of the organization or different levels of control, let's say. Um, so, uh, I haven't seen anyone successfully turn on enforcement from day one. Uh, not to say it's not possible, but I'd love to see it. Um, so the way that I was able to typically do this would be, you know, almost like a dry run. Like what's, what's going on in my organization. Where, where am I not passing policy? Ok. Let me go follow up with those teams, understand why or saying that they should be in scope or understanding. Um If they're, if they need more help, you know, becoming in scope or, but actually addressing the, the control, whatever it happens to be and then I can go ahead and enforce that requirement going forward. Um So, so it's not, it's not something you can just turn on without going to engage all of the, the, the people who might have that control affect them directly. You know, I, I agree, I think that's important. I, we, we actually added uh soft enforcement specifically so that people can turn it on day one, even if it's only reporting. Um And I agree the uh the better, the better you get a, a visualization of what's going on, the, the sooner you can figure out how to address it. What are some considerations for organizations in terms of, you know, should you use the cloud? Should you go third party should you actually host your own, you know, how to, how to sort of people make that decision. Um, and what's, you know, what's your sort of, you know, best prescriptive guidance for them? I think it really depends where your, where your data is and what you're trying to control. Right. If you're using three different cloud providers, um, using three different policy systems, one for each cloud doesn't seem like the best plan. Um Again, you can tell me otherwise that you've tried it out and it worked, but that doesn't, I haven't seen anyone really do that successfully. So people will turn to third party tools, um configures code infrastructures, code tools, you know, we we're talking about the declarative models that people are going towards. Um sometimes also people like kind of like don't care in some sense, like if I, if the the core part of my application is having um you know, running some compute workload and I really care about what's happening in the application layer, but I am a little bit more lax about what's happening in other layers. I might not put in place such strict controls because I don't give my developers direct access to that. So it's about also controlling the things where you have people who have access to change those, those controls, right? If you only have one person who handles compute provisioning and that person knows what they're doing, maybe you don't need to enforce controls there and they can just go update things themselves. Right. Um, so it's more about being smart with, with what you have and, and how big your team is than anything else. Yeah. Do you have any, any thoughts on that topic or? Yeah, honestly to add to what, what Maya said, um, I, I tend to get a little prescriptive in the very beginning. I don't like, like she sort of reference. right? There's not really a one size fits all right. There's not just a right and wrong answer to this. Uh What I try to do is from the beginning, I, when I'm thinking about managed or a self managed or third party, you know, service provider or whatever I think about, um I think about three things really. I think that I think the first thing I'm doing is, is I think about who can do it better, right? Can we do it better? Does the hosting provider do it better? Is there a third party service uh or a third party that does it better? And, and what I'm, what I'm doing in that scenario is I'm considering buying expertise, right? That's what I'm buying is expertise. Um The second thing I'm thinking about is um honestly, unfortunately, cost, right? You know, you have to think about the cost of a managed service, uh or the hosting provider provided service versus total cost of ownership of running your own solution. And that isn't just the cost of, of building but operating and maintaining and updating, you know, all that goes into what you would consider co right. And the last thing I think about is, uh, can my team's time be better spent on more complex issues versus what might be considered like the trivial routine work? Right. Essentially what is the opportunity cost anything after this topic as well? Or? Iiii, I agree with what he said. And Jonathan you mentioned, I mean, one of the things that we do see is depending on a a user's environment. If they have heterogeneous infrastructure, if they have um uh complex environments, they may not be able to rely on the cloud tools available. So they may choose to a third party solution and design an architecture that's uh agnostic to cloud providers. Yeah, I think there's also a difference to kind of add on to, to what you're all saying between um the controls that I can use versus what I actually uh I don't know, template or implement, right? Like if a cloud provider does not make a particular control available accessible via an API you are limited. Unfortunately, in terms of how you can use that particular control, right? Versus um you might choose to buy the expertise of someone who's already implemented A PC I. And that doesn't necessarily mean, you know, using a particular solution, but using that expertise as to what might work across solutions like the solutions that you have. So you are gonna be limited also by the nature of what's possible, um, based on whatever environment you're choosing to run in fair point. So let's switch it around a little. Let's say you've, you've worked together, you've made great tools, choices and you have a security issue. What is the, what are things that, that corporations should think about? Um, in terms of responding, you know, when an issue comes up, it, it may be, it may be your first time, um, you know, facing a security issue or a policy issue. Um I don't know if you remember the first time in your career, mayo and this sort of came across your desk. I know it, it's that it's that email you don't want to open in your, in your mailbox. Um But what's some advice do you have for, you know, for people watching the, the first time that they actually encounter an issue? How do they deal with it? What, what steps should they take hold a bit? I mean, hopefully you have an incident response team whose job it is to deal with these kinds of issues. Um, a couple things to point out, um, there's a difference between uh an issue that's a vulnerability, that's something that is um an uh a problem with your environment or your configuration, et cetera that no one's actively exploiting and a security incident where someone actually doing something bad, actively in your environment or you know that you've lost data or you know that you've, you know, eroded customer trust, et cetera. Like tho those one is more urgent than the other, right? It might seem urgent to patch your critical vulnerability and it is, but that's a different reaction and a different team and a different model than, hey, I've lost customer data, right? Di different, there are different scenarios. Um So I'm gonna assume we mean the security incident, the, you know, shit's on fire. Let's go deal with that right away. Um Again, hopefully you have an incident response team uh if we're working on the cloud because I'm as I'm assuming that's the situation that we're in today. Um Make sure you understand the responsibility model of the cloud. There's probably some information that the cloud provider can, can give you for that incident as well. Uh The first phase you're gonna be in is gonna be in a sort of collecting information phase, you know, finding all the logs, events, audit history of what happened in that in that area and figure out what's actually affected. What's the scope of the problem? You might be doing that simultaneously while you're actually trying to stem the bleeding. So whether that's, you know, change firewall rules or kill the service or whatever happens to make sense in that particular particular situation, patch, apply a patch, et cetera to, to address the issue. Um So collect information while while you stem the bleeding. Once you have information, you might have a better idea as to how to actually go address and fix that problem and then you can go do so. Um, and then again, depending on what, what ended up happening, you might have to notify customers. Um There might be, you know, I don't know, rotating of passwords within your environment, et cetera, depending on what information was compromised. I think it's really important also after the fact to do a postmortem and understand why this happened and what happened. Um so that you can put in place different controls or, or second layers of controls to help prevent this from happening again in the future. Yeah. Jump in anything to add for when your, when your hair is on fire. I I honestly cannot put it any better than what Maya just did, but I would say this, I would say this. Uh everything she said, please try to do it before an event actually happens. Try to figure out who you need to go to what teams do, what, who's responsible, what the on call numbers are, what your third party if you need to get a right, the the worst case scenario, you need a forensic investigator, you need to reach out to this whatever agency, right? Uh have all that in place ready to go do tabletop exercises, run through scenarios, know what your DR strategy is, know what your BC strategy is. Um disaster recovery, business continuity. Uh In in case people aren't familiar with those uh acronyms, um know how to get in touch with, you know, your tams at, at your hosting provider, do that ahead of time. And when the events happen, then ensure people have access to that information, that document, if it's a in a handbook or, or some other location, just make sure engineering and support and it, and security and infrastructure and development. Everybody has access to that information knows where it's at, knows how to get there. Um And then do exactly what Maya just said and, and, and to add to that have some redundancy, right? Like if part of your pro problem might be like you operate Slack ops and Slack is down and Slack is also how you communicate with everybody else in your team. Maybe you need another way to communicate with everybody else in your team during an emergency. Yeah. All right. So we all agree. My gave an excellent answer but anything you wanna to pile on and, and add on it. So I would say hopefully people are taking notes. There's are two good examples, like pretty good playbook to how you manage your incident. So, uh I have nothing to add to that. Yeah. So maya, you brought up something in your answer to. I want to come back to you, you brought up um uh the concept of review or, or postmortems. And so we, you know, we sort of have this concept of, of blameless postmortems and I kind of, uh, I'll, I'll throw out the, the provocative question. Do blameless postmortems really exist uh, in the real world? And, you know, what are the lessons that, um, uh, that people could take away? What is the best advice we have to, um, to people when they're doing these reviews and, and, um, you know, and trying to, to take the learnings and, and apply them going forward. Yeah. So I, I think they do exist that being said, I'm biased. I used to work at Google, which I think invented the concept of blameless postmortems. Now I'm a github. Um The uh they do exist in the real world and they apply both to security and also to like operational incidents and that kind of thing, right? Um I think it's particularly important to realize that humans make mistakes and when a mistake happens, like the human can say sorry and can like change their behavior and can learn how to do it differently. But a new human is gonna come along and do the exact same thing unless we fix the actual system, right? Um I had an incident that I remember where uh we accidentally um uh made some customer data public that shouldn't have been public. Um We contacted the customer and told them the person who was responsible for this said, let me personally apologize and I was like, no, like this is not your fault, like the, the, the fault is that the system, let you make the data public, we should go fix the system. Um And so, and so that to me is, is the, the learning and the takeaway from this is like, how can you make everything easier for your humans because you have a limited number of humans and they're gonna keep making mistakes. So how do, how do you prevent the system? How do you make the system prevent them from doing things that they shouldn't be doing? Yeah, wise words, uh uh anything you want to build on in the, in, you know, reviews and, uh, and actions to take on it. And I think, I mean, I, I agree with my, uh, and uh a couple of things I would say is as you're doing your post mortems for security or operational incidents, um, review, uh review the entire workflows, do a very comprehensive evaluation of your tools and systems. Uh Don't, don't just restrict the evaluation or the post mortem to where you actually saw the system. Uh the, the, the, the chain of reaction or flow could be four systems downstream or upstream in the process. So take a, take an approach where, uh I would say, just don't go with the prejudice or then go with the, uh with the mindset that, hey, here's what we saw the problem. So we got to go around here. Uh These, these systems are complex, they are already uh uh connected. So go with an open approach and look deeper uh elsewhere for the root cause because if you just fix the symptom, you're gonna two months later may land up in the same situation and uh may not uh be able to recover there. Now, I think that's a good point. I, I think um one of the things that uh I, I'll share a personal anecdote on my side, you know, we actually got to test some of our business recovery plans because of COVID. Right, because no one was in the office and because, you know, we had a different set of tools and we got to check our redundancy tools and sort of, uh, some of our planning. It wasn't something we intended, you know, I think we probably would, would have run a different style of fire drill. Um, but it was a, a test. So we sort of took advantage of it and, and we sort of hinted around it in the beginning. Um, Jonathan, I, I, uh, in preparing, I kind of looked at, um, some of the work that you guys have done. A lot of us are working from home now. Um, I can tell by some of your backgrounds they don't, they don't look very tiger i or get Huish or get lavish. Uh, and I'm sure a lot of people watching this now are watching from their homes. Is there anything that, you know, people should think about, um, in terms of, you know, protecting their infrastructure and services. I, I noted, uh, you know, when I did my searches preparing for the thing I noted that, um, glab did a, uh, a fishing test on their employees when they were working from home and actually one in five, employees actually fell for the fish, which I don't know is, uh, if people were happy or unhappy. Um But that type of, of, you know, auditing and stuff is like a concrete action that we can take. But any advice to organizations that are, that are working remotely and haven't thought about the security and policy implications. Jonathan. Yeah, the, the first piece of advice and, and granted I I may be uh with a disclaimer. I may be a bit rusty. I've been working remotely for six years now. So this is pre pandemic. But if I could give a piece of advice for companies that have moved remote um obvious for obvious reasons, one thing that they may have not thought about or forgotten is ultimately one significant part of security is threat landscape and reducing the threat landscape. So if you think about the infrastructure that's still running in a, in a, in a data center somewhere, uh where you had your, this network domain and all this access to your ad servers and, and L A servers. Um I would consider disabling or suspending services that are no longer being utilized inside the network uh that was once connected to from a desk or an office somewhere inside, right inside your building. Um But that said uh working remotely, um you know, this day and age, most people have created external access to their environment. So their production environments, teams go on call, right? People go on vacation. Teams are are on call. 24 7 events happen in the middle of the night. They have to get up. They're, they're uh certain engineers, their infrastructure engineers, the it teams have to have to connect remotely III I guess in the most simplistic form is uh obviously uh make sure you're thinking about a couple of the best practices, right? Make sure II, I certainly recommend using an encrypted VPN. Um I certainly recommend the, the um uh uh principles of, of le least, right? Um And, and um in ensure that uh to ensure that and in and in addition to that is M fa right, make sure you have multifactor authentication turned on. So as your workforce is, has moved remote, um you know, it, it adds a layer of complexity uh from connecting in an office to connecting in everybody's homes on personal networks using what could potentially be secure insecure methods or secure insecure wifi, you know, maybe they're the Starbucks. So, uh I think VPN, I think M FA is really important um in ensuring you're, you're reviewing access from, from external um from the from, from the external uh parties. Yeah, I got anything to add to, to Jonathan about us all working remotely. I think those are good. Uh Those are definitely good uh tactics. I would add that um like if you just stay with the example, Eric, you were mentioning that one out of five employees fell for the fishing attack. See the other thing to account for is uh as you're designing your security architecture for this new way of working, think about your blast radius, think about the trust domains for the user. So just like a good developer, you think about your fault domain for the application. Similarly from a security perspective that user falls for a phishing attack. What are, what are the, what's the blast really is for that compromise in the environment? And if you follow some of the things Jonathan you mentioned uh you could easily contain those compromises and uh uh have literally no exposure to your infrastructure or your environment even if one of those users get compromised. Oh yeah, to, to add on to some of that, I think the um I mean the 20% fishing rate is pretty good. I think that's like industry standard roughly. So that's not something for people to be uh to be, you know, um upset of if they see something similar in their, in their, in their um environments. Um The two strongest things I would do, there are obviously M fa and um just like, make it OK to ask questions, like, for someone who's working from home and who doesn't have contact with the security team, like, where do they go? Ask a question of like, hey, someone called me claiming to be from it? Like it's the same, it's the same, the same commotion that we have with people working from home is what we're gonna have with the US election where someone calls you up and like tries to scam you into doing something, right? Um Everyone, everything has changed for everyone. We know that, you know, make it, make it, OK, make it easy for someone to get information. Um I think it's also the, the kind of the opportunity is anyone who had a beyond Corp plan on the backlog is probably picking it up and dusting it off and going. How do I do beyond Corp again? So it's the idea of instead of using a VPN um having different trust levels for your applications, your internal applications and using things like the P addresses and uh and times and machine identities, et cetera to then access uh to determine if a user should be able to access project application. So I think that's also a trend that I'm that I'm seeing pick back up. Uh Not that I ever went away but kind of pick up back up in force um for, for more, more modern corporations. If I, if I if I could add one more thing to. Um, so I think what we can do better as security leaders as security orgs is, you know, let's not just wait for once a year to have this little 15 minute, you know, security awareness training, video and check a box and now we're not compliant. Everything's good. Right. Um, check the box items. Rarely. I think, I think research has, has shown that it really improves, uh, an organization security posture. So just keep security top of mind. What I, what I try to do, um, at, at git lab at, at past companies is I send out just email updates. I, I send out Slack channel updates. Like, hey, just a reminder. Take a quick look at, you know, um, you know, at this fishing, uh, handbook page or something and how you can protect yourself. I try to send something out around the holidays. Right. I try to send something out when, when there's a trend or an increase in, in the industry of, of, uh, certain types of attacks or, um, malware fishing attempts or whatever it is or spear fishing. Right. And, and just trying to keep security top of mind, I think is, is important and, and if you can manage it, I know it's difficult to do but if you can manage it, it'd be nice if you had, uh, if, if you could maintain regular security training versus just like, oh, go watch this video 15 minutes and you're done for the year, um, maybe figure out a way to incorporate security training into other types of, you know, policy refresh or, you know, maybe in your, um, maybe when you do a, a, uh, like a GDPR video or something or you have to do like some sort of GDPR training. It'd be nice to throw some security stuff into that or, you know, code of conduct policy. It'd be nice to throw some security stuff into that. Oh, take a look at the acceptable use policy, by the way, like you have to sign off on that as well and just let us know if you have questions. So, um I just think keeping it top of mind is important, def definitely good advice. So let me, we're, we're kind of running out of time. So let me close with one last question. So that sort of in a different vein in terms of uh our responsibility. I think the, the thing I think is fun to sort of speculate on is, you know, there's all this new technology coming. And so I, I'll just like to throw out, you know, what, what are some future technologies and, and trends that you see, you know, um cloud vendors and the industry taking advantage of to make all of our jobs easier with respect to security and policy going forward. So I'll, I'll start with my, I'll run down the panel one more time and then we'll wrap it up. I don't know. That's a tough one. I'm thinking of it right now. Um, I have, I have more problems. I don't know that I have more solutions for you immediately. That's ok. You could, you, you could articulate the, the order in which we should work on them. That's ok. Um, I mean, some of the other problems that I see people starting to care about that they didn't care about before, like things like firmware security um where it's like, oh I had all this hardware and it was great when I knew what all my machines were, but now that we're working from home and now that I have things in three different data centers and a private cloud and it, and, and there's like this layer across my entire organization that I have nothing I know nothing about. Um So that's an interesting problem. I think for me that I'm like, huh, what are they gonna be doing in that space? Um trusted supply chain provenance, all all important topics. Um Any future trends that excite you or you think that um users will benefit from shortly? I think definitely from a, I mean, we come from the world so suddenly I'm closer to those environments. I mean, it's, it's a great uh infrastructure, it's a great architecture approach. Uh building your application in your micro services based environments. I think the one thing I would say the users should definitely plan on their road map is bringing security closer to the workload, particularly in the network security environment. You will see if you're not already there as as in your deployment that your workloads are going to grow and you will be beyond just that 245 clusters that you're running. And as you grow and become successful, it's going to become harder and harder to design security. If you're following what we call as a traditional enclave model where there are gates, some places and everything has to pass through those gates. So go away from those approach, bring it as closer to uh the workloads. And I understand it may not be as straightforward or as easy for you to take incremental approach. Uh but definitely start moving in that direction because that's really the most scalable, most effective and most uh uh cloud way to secure your environments. Yeah, Jonathan. Yeah, two words, world domination and uh what I mean by that? No, but for real though, uh like honestly, the, the trend we're seeing uh all across the world, regardless of industry, regardless of professional personal space, space is um an aggregate uh like a complete solution, an aggregate of services. So I see, what do I see? I see um aws, I see GCP, I see, I see uh Microsoft or, or I see these companies adding more and more um solutions to their platform. That's gonna be like a one stop shop, right? Isn't that what we, is that what we're trying to do? Many of us are trying to do with, with the product of services that we offer. Right. Amazon started off as, as a bookstore and look where it's at today. Right? So uh um II I think that's, that's what I see happening in the next, you know, 10 to 20 years is just an increase in uh in an already expansive set of service solutions embedded into the hosting platform. Thank you a positive one. Now, uh the use of open source. So I think it, I sort of, you know, I, I got it but I didn't get it until a couple of years ago where it's like you can really put in um say your team is three application security people, right? You can spend one person's worth of time and if they contribute that time to an open source project and use that open source project, they get back 10 engineers worth of time based on like people building features that they need that work with their environment, et cetera, right? So again, assuming you don't go down a super super bespoke path. Um The the rise of open source security tools, it's just gonna, everyone's gonna be, we don't have that many in the grand scheme of things that do that do security, but we're gonna have more and more and more open source security tools. Yeah, I just, I just want to cover myself just in case A I overlords are reviewing this video in 20 years. I I'm totally on your side and respectful of you. So uh that insurance is in my pocket. Uh I wanna thank you guys for spending some time with us, sharing your thoughts and, and best practices overall and I wish you all a good day. Thanks for spending some time with us. OK? Thank you. Pulumi is the modern infrastructures code platform that empowers cloud engineering teams to define cloud resources using their favorite programming languages, including javascript typescript, Python dot net and go by using familiar programming languages instead of templates or domain specific languages. Teams can now manage cloud resources using the same tools, libraries and workflows that they use to write their applications. This means Pulumi works with your preferred source control management system and ID E with full linking, debugging testing and code review capabilities at your fingertips. Pulumi integrates with popular C I CD platforms so that your infrastructure deployments can be gated and deployed in the same pipeline as your applications, ensuring your infrastructure is ready to support new application features before you push them to production. Pulumi has over 40 integrations with leading software tools and popular SAS platforms. So you can stand up all of the capabilities your team needs in the cloud on communities and on prem it even supports sophisticated hybrid deployments. Pulumi provides an open source SDK and CLI for your development team and offers both free and commercials a products to help you manage infrastructure, state user roles, infrastructure policies and more with Pulumi, you can deliver quickly, deploy confidently operate, securely and scale, easily, try it today at Pulumi dot com.
---
