---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Azure | Workshop"
title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Azure | Workshop"
meta_desc: |
    Learn how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Microsoft Azure and run containerized applications on the cluster. The workshop will briefly introduce ...
url_slug: getting-started-kubernetes-azure-workshop
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Getting Started with Kubernetes on Azure | Workshop"
  description: |
    Learn how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Microsoft Azure and run containerized applications on the cluster. The workshop will briefly introduce Pulumi, an Infrastructure as Code platform where you can use familiar programming languages to provision modern cloud infrastructure.  We will guide you through the process with diagrams and a series of labs to help accelerate your cloud projects. You'll learn about the following: ▪️ Kubernetes basics ▪️ How to provision an AKS cluster ▪️ Deploying workloads to your cluster  
  sortable_date: 2023-05-11T20:21:13Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/qBoRBDZRkDk
transcript: |
    First off some introductions. Hello everybody. Uh My name is Josh, I'm a senior architect, a senior solutions architect here at Pulumi and with me is April Edwards. April. If you'd like to introduce yourself, I am April Edwards. I'm a senior enterprise advocate at uh I was gonna say Microsoft at github, formerly Microsoft and uh I specialize in devops infrastructures, code cloud native stuff. And uh we're here to do some cool things with Pulumi and Azure and a KS today. Great. So uh before we begin uh for, for the folks in the audience, uh please do comment in the chat liberally. Uh There is um so like, you know, if something's cool, let us know uh if you have a question, let us know that way. We're not just uh you know, uh streaming into the void here. Uh It helps us as, as presenters. Uh There's also a Q and A tab uh that you can see uh if you wanna um if you wanna ask like a question, uh you could do it either in the main chat or in the Q A, we will do our best to get you an answer. Um please do uh join the Pulumi Community Slack. Um It's an excellent place to learn about uh Pulumi. Um There are Pulumi staff members in there. There are very experienced Pulumi users in there and beginners alike. Uh So go there. Um You can uh people ask all types of questions in there from like very, very basic things to like fairly advanced usage scenarios. And um the level of engagement there from, from Pulumi staff and community is, is really excellent. So I can't recommend it highly enough. Uh It's like probably the single best tool to learn, learn Pulumi. Um There is the full code for this workshop that is in the handouts link on the handouts tab. Um Your feedback is always welcome. Please let us know what works. Um What doesn't and what type of uh future content you'd like to see because uh you know, we wanna serve you our audience. Uh You will get a youtube link uh in a follow up email uh within a day or two after this workshop. Um That's a frequent question that comes up. So you don't need to um follow along. Um You don't need to follow on like line, line by line with anything we're doing. The full code is available and you will uh get a link to a video version uh of this workshop that you can go through at your own pace. Uh Some of the prerequisites for the stuff that we're doing here. Um You'll need an, you'll need an Azure account which you definitely do not find at google dot com. That would be at portal dot uh azure dot com, I believe. Uh dot Azure dot com. Yes. All right. Uh You will need the uh Pulumi cli uh which you can install. Um If you go to plumy dot com, it's pretty easy to find, find the link for that. Uh You'll need a Plumy account. Um You don't strictly need a Plume account, but it's easiest uh when you're learning Pulumi to uh use the uh Pulumi Ploy cloud as your back end uh that is free for individual use. So uh there's no Pulumi charges for anything that we're doing today. Uh There will be charges of course for the uh Azure Resources that you spin up. Um If they're out of the free tier. Um I don't know the details on that, but those costs should be like fairly minimal. Um You will also need a node 19 and typescript four. that may not be the minimum requirement, but I know that that particular combination of versions uh will work. So um a little bit about Pulumi uh first off uh again, do create a Pulumi account. It's free. Uh There's a sign up link on the handouts tab. Uh What that will do is that will give you state file management and uh a secrets provider. Uh that will, and it's, it's the easiest way to get started with Plumy. Once you have, uh, use Pulumi, you're getting comfortable with it and you're thinking about maybe your organization adopting it. That would be a good time to sign up for a free trial. Uh, you get 14 days free with no credit card required and it gives you like our full, full suite of features, uh, including like, SCIM and sso, um, you know, organization wide policy, things like that. So, um you know, don't use your, don't use your trial uh when you're like, just getting spun up, um you know, save it for when you're thinking about adopting at an organizational level because uh Plumy Cloud is uh totally free uh for individual use. So there's, you don't, you don't get much out of signing up for the trial when you're just using it as a single person. Uh So what is Pulumi? Pulumi is universal infrastructures code? Uh It's an IC tool that allows you to use real programming languages with any cloud. Uh Of course, that includes Azure, but we have a um a large ecosystem of uh providers that we work with uh about 100 and 30 I think at most recent count. So that's uh all the major public cloud providers uh and as well as like a services like data dog, new relic, of course github, we have a github provider that we use internally at Plume uh pretty extensively. Um You know, you name it there's probably a Pulumi provider for it. And uh you can find our complete uh list of providers in the Plume registry and I will throw a link to that on the handouts uh shortly uh of and of course, we also have a provider which we will be demonstrating today. Yes. Uh a little bit about the structure of a plumy program. So at the topmost level, you have a project, um you don't really deal that much with projects directly. Uh When you initialize a Pulumi uh program, it creates the project and you don't really think about it that much afterwards. Um Within the project, we have the Pulumi program and the Pulumi program. That's where your code goes. Uh Today, we'll be using typescript. Uh So that'll be your like index dot TS file is where uh the main entry point is within your program. Uh We have resources. An example of a resource, for example, would be an Azure resource group or your A KS cluster. Uh resources have inputs and outputs. Uh When you create a uh an Azure resource group, for example, one of the inputs is the name and uh then resources also have outputs those outputs uh often become the inputs to other resources. Uh So, for example, um what we'll be doing today is we'll be CRE creating an A KS cluster. Uh We'll be grabbing the cube config from that as an output and then that will become the input uh when we create our kineti manifests. So in addition to the program, we also have stacks and stacks are instances of the program. So in our A KS use case, we might have a DEV A Q A and a prod stack and we might uh so those stacks are going to generally contain configuration values. So for example, we might want uh less worker nodes or less powerful worker nodes in our DEV stack than we would in our Q A or prod environments. So that's the Pulumi program model. Uh a little bit about the physical model. So we have the Pulumi program in the bottom left. Uh You can write Pulumi programs in uh a range of languages including Python typescripts, which is what we'll be using today. Uh We support go, we support dot net. So that's actually both C# and F Sharp. Uh And we have java support in preview. Uh And we also have a YAML option. So, uh your Pulumi program is uh interacts with the Pulumi engine. The Pulumi engine is the Pulumi Cli and the engine is going to look at your state file, uh which is stored uh today, we'll be using Pulumi Cloud as our back end the Pulumi service and it looks at your state file and it also interacts with the Pulumi providers which you see on the bottom, right, uh to figure out what uh resources need to be uh created, updated or deleted and so Pulumi works in a declarative fashion. So you, when you write your Pulumi program, you just say, OK, I want an A KS cluster with uh with these, with these attributes and the Pulumi Plumy Engine will interact with your state file to figure out uh what changes need to be made. You don't need to in your plumy program specify. I want to change this from this to this. The Plumy Engine will figure out those changes for you and the way that uh Pulumi interacts with the various cloud providers uh is using the Pulumi provider. So in the bottom right hand, you see the Pulumi Azure provider, that is what is going to make the actual API request uh to the Azure. Uh API I'm gonna ask a question that's um out there in the or answer a question that's out there. We've had a couple of people with stuff. Um uh Ram has asked, you know about looking at the industry that terraform is heavily utilized with infrastructures code. Absolutely. Um Terr form has limitations, has a lot of limitations. Um First and foremost the language. So it is learning a new language for, for everyone involved. Um It uses the HCL language whereas Pulumi is using your native coding language that you're familiar with. Um There's actually Josh didn't mention this. There's a couple of folks out in Europe. Um I can't remember their name the first names, but I, I remember the repo they were getting terra form support for Pulumi as well. So um they've been working on that as well. So it uses your native language. It also has day zero support for um Azure resources specifically around Azure. Um Terraform has a way to do it now, but it was not inherently built into terraform initially. Um It's still a bit of a limitation. Um But also, I think one of the biggest benefits of Pulumi because it uses that inherent language writing tests for your infrastructure's code is a million times easier. If you've ever written testing tools um or used Terra with Terraform, it's slow and lethargic. So I've worked on a lot of projects with Terraform where it's uh testing can be a nightmare. Um really long running tests, whereas pli you can run a lot more tests more frequently in that native language. And that's one of the biggest advantages of it um from a, from a kind of a development point of view if that makes sense. Um But yeah, I think and then Roderick's answered. Exactly. You don't need to learn another language. So that's really helpful for it. Um And then I'll let Josh continue on talk about some of the, the, the new um Pulumi features that I think are pretty awesome. Yeah. So now we get to the new and shiny. Um So there is a link to this in the handouts tab. Uh But we have a new uh feature called Pulumi dot uh Pulumi A I uh which is powered by chat GP T um If you have not used it, um It's people are seem to be very, very excited about it in the community. Um It is in, I, I used it in part to write some of the um some of the content uh for this workshop and some upcoming workshops. It's very, very useful. Uh You get a prompt, you ask uh plume A I to do something for you. So for example, I said, show me how to deploy a helm chart on my A KS cluster and it will generate the code for you. Um It's not perfect but it's uh it's pretty good and uh it can really help you get uh get, you know, if there isn't a specific example for your use case because like, you know, we, there are a lot of Pulumi providers, there are a lot of resources in those providers and there are a lot of configuration configuration options um within uh those resources. So, you know, it's really uh it can be a great tool if you're, if you're trying to learn. Um So I definitely recommend folks go check out Plumy A I if you like it. Uh You know, please spread the word, you know, say something on social media. Um You know, we love, uh we love uh getting our community members excited about that new stuff. So one question from uh, re re, and I'm sorry if I didn't pronounce that properly. Um, does Pulumi Support Oracle Cloud? It does. Uh, we have an OC I provider. Um, pretty much all the major, uh, pretty much all the, the, the large and smaller cloud providers are supported. Um, April, if you could, uh, throw a link to the Pulumi registry, uh, in either the handout stab or in the chat. That would be awesome. Uh, So we have some more uh we have, how is it different from the C# uh SDK? I assume that's the C# Azure SDK. Um So I would assume that the Azure SDK is, is uh going to work in an imperative way whereas Pulumi is going to be um is Pulumi is going to be declarative. Um So if you're creating resources with the uh Azure C# SDK, I uh in April, please, please check me if anything I'm saying is incorrect. Um But you would have to, if you want to like spin up a, a cluster, an A KS cluster, right? You're going to write it with, I want three worker notes. Um And then if you want to change that to be one worker note, you would have to specifically say, hey, remove these two worker notes. Whereas in Pulumi, uh you might, you would run the Pulumi program with three worker nodes and then if you just change it to one in your program, Plumy will figure out that difference for you. So that's kind of one of the, one of the key um key differences. Yeah. And I haven't, to be, to be honest, for, for infrastructure changes, I haven't worked with the C# SDK. Honestly. Um I actually spoke to someone about this about doing this like powershell. It's, it's infrastructure updates where Pulumi really shines. So infrastructure changes or somebody goes in and modifies it. Pulumi is there to kind of write the ship and keep it going. All right. So April, I'm gonna talk about Azure. Um Right. So let's talk about Azure. So for those of you out there today, I know we've had questions about some other clouds. How many of you um I actually can't see the poll things to see how many of you have used Azure and a Ks. Um I don't know Josh if you can. Yeah. So it, it's, it's almost split evenly. Uh looks like folks have at least uh used it a little bit. So the, yeah, the majority of the audience has at least used it a little bit. OK. Cool. So we'll talk a little bit of Azure a little bit high level for those of you that may or may not have used A KS. So we're gonna talk about the Microsoft Cloud. Um So yes, I work for github. Um Yes, Microsoft owns it, but we're completely separate entities still, but we do integrate heavily into each other. So everything we're doing today from within github. I'm gonna show a lot of the cool github features that will enable you to deploy uh this demo and go forward and write better code in general. So they all integrate together pretty well. Um You know, we have a lot of products in the Microsoft cloud platform. We've got Dynamics 365, Microsoft 365, which I'm sure many of you use teams, et cetera. Um We've got power platform, which is kind of that low code offering. And then we've got Azure um pretty much all of our products run on Azure. So some of the stuff I show you today, even though it's a github product will run on Azure in the back end for the compute. Um So it's some pretty cool stuff. So, you know, we have a pretty good stack of things and I think the biggest thing that, that Microsoft and get help like to talk about is identity and security. So as a developer or someone who works in operation security is not really at the forefront of what you want to think about, but it has to be at the forefront of everything we do because we need to make sure we pick the right tech because if we go into a technology without the knowledge and the security behind it, it it's gonna fail, it's not gonna be compliant for our organizations and compliance is one of the biggest things that uh we talk about. So we also talk about cloud native a lot. Um So when we talk about cloud native, it's, you know, cloud native has a, a definition by the CNC FA formal definition. Um I determine cloud native as anything that's kind of divided into a micro service. So breaking down those monoliths that we used to use in our infrastructure um into more segmented, um easy to manage services so that we're not impacting the whole system. So in a monolithic system, we make a change, the whole thing goes when we start working with cloud native, we can change one part of the system. So in this case, when we're doing, employing our cluster today, we can make changes to networking and not in effect affecting our entire infrastructure stack. So um there, there's a lot of advantages to that. So part of being cloud native, um there's absolutely a security component that we will talk about. We're gonna have a lot of development tools. So I'm gonna talk about some Azure container registry in a little bit. Um And we're gonna use things like visual studio code and github uh to, to write our, to write our infrastructures code. Um And a big part of this is because the community um Microsoft is actually the largest um uh contributor to the open source community. So we um partner with a lot of product projects, we start a lot of projects um And then we help support a lot of it. So, Dapper has kind of been one of the biggest ones that we supported in the um kind of in the open space uh open source uh A KS space for a while, but we have a lot of offerings in the cloud native space, but we're gonna focus mostly um in the box say that says containers and service. We're gonna talk about A KS and then we're gonna touch a little bit on Azure container wraps in a little bit because they're also pretty cool. Um The elements of orchestration. So where, where does Kubernetes really shine? Um It does all these things that we don't necessarily want to do in a traditional infrastructure. So we have things like scheduling um being able to uh have affinity to our pods and anti affinity we need to scale. And that's one of the biggest selling points of Kubernetes. And I believe Josh was saying to me earlier um because he works so much in GCP and AWS. You said a KS is a service scales. How much faster Josh when I built uh deployment? Sorry. Yeah. Uh So a KS cluster deployments about 3.5 minutes, which is uh significantly faster than some other uh managed a services you may have used. Yeah, absolutely. So it's, it's definitely scaled really well, the networking component is really strong on it. I saw someone earlier ask about private vnet, uh private end points and vnet config we will talk about some of that um and health monitoring. So when we talk about infrastructure, it's great. We can deploy the infrastructures code, but we need to be able to manage that. We need to fail over. Um In the traditional data center configuration, we used to talk about kind of a backup and dr plan being a whole other physical data center in another location. I've worked a lot with a lot of customers that have that. Um Now our fail over could be something as simple as changing. Um Just one of our uh our, our location of our infrastructures code. Um I've worked with a lot of customers where our fail over plan is maybe deploying to North Europe and then the fail over goes to West Europe, it goes to a physical different location in Azure. So that is their Dr plan. We know no longer have to worry about standing up a whole data center and running it 100% of the time and be able to organize and coordinate our uh application upgrades, right? We've all been there where we've had these big monolithic apps that have taken days to upgrade and we do it once every six months and they all break. So those are things we want to avoid going down the road, especially in the cloud native mindset. So uh in terms of a Ks that is Azure's container service, it is Azure Kineti service. It's fully managed as a uh as a service. So if you think of the kind of service models where you have infrastructure as a service platform as a service, it fits under the platform as a service model. So you have the whole managed control plan, you have automated upgrades and patches, um cluster scaling and healing and uh a lot of cost savings. So we're not gonna get into cost today about any of that. Um But it does run as a fully managed service, but there's some advantages and disadvantages to that because you still have to do a lot of feeding and watering with A KS. And I think that's a misnomer that a lot of people think about when they think about the cloud, especially developers like, oh I can just quickly do this, I can spin this thing up. Yes, but it needs feeding and watering and there's a massive networking component to a KS, especially around private endpoints and management of that. Um So then we've also pushed out this this thing called Azure container apps. These are serverless containers for all your micro services. Um This has taken away all the overhead management that A KS really brought into the into the field. Um So you can scale things a little bit more dynamically and you can focus on the application first. So we see this massive shift in the industry going from um lots of code, lots of infrastructure to low code less infrastructure that's where the platform is a service software as a service really comes in, it also lowers your security footprint. When we start doing these things, you know, you think of a traditional operating system, a traditional virtual machine, you have to patch, you have to manage it, the hypervisor, the networking, all these components. When we start looking at A KS, you know, we have to manage um all the pods and the containers and the networking. Yes, but we have a lower footprint in which to manage. When we go to Azure container apps, there's even less for us to have to manage. So we can just focus on the applications to deliver applications first to our end users. So what can you build with Azure container apps? Pretty much a lot of things. Um You can do a lot of data loads in the background, uh back end processing, you can do event driven processing. Um We see a lot of customers using it for public api end points and web apps, web apps are probably some of the biggest use cases. I see because it's easiest buy-in to get into container apps. Um I've got a web app with a custom domain and I need to get it scaled out. Um We usually go Azure container apps versus an Azure web app because it's all self healing and self managed. Um We see a lot of customers that are looking to use microservices and there's a huge push using microservices and dapper. Um Dapper is really cool. We have some uh if you want to learn more about Dapper and how it works, it helps a lot of this uh triggering of scalability and everything else for your microservices. And uh it's pretty cool. So we've done a lot of work in this area to make this a more managed service. So there's less overhead in the apps of the first with your organization. So we're gonna focus on A Ks today. But I want to show you all this just a nice comparison of A Ks versus Azure container apps. Because anytime we embrace the cloud, like Azure container apps do not work for every person. A KS does not work for every use case, you need to find the right thing that fits best for your organization. So um to have more of that hands on approach, more of that uh pliability if you will A KS is really good. It has a lot of flexibility and it's an infrastructure focus. Whereas um Azure container apps, you start focusing more way into the application stack. Um And you don't have to worry about a lot of that. So there are things that are built in and supported into Azure container apps. So you have Envoy Kata and Dapper, which is pretty cool. So um they're all built in while A Ks supports it, they're all built into Azure container apps. So there's going to be a um a lot more use case for Azure container apps, I would say more so than an Azure web app. Um But there's definitely a use case. So this is just a little good piece of information to show you what may or may not be the best thing for you. And I believe it's demo time. All right. So enough of hearing me talk, we're gonna listen to Josh and we're gonna do some code and um hopefully everyone's ready to get started doing some cool stuff. And April, we did have one question uh in the chat, which is what is the difference between Azure service fabric and Azure container apps? Does it sit somewhere in between a KS and container apps? So, um service fabric was almost an alternative to a Ks in the early days in Azure and A Ks was then built on top of service fabric at one point. Um I haven't spoken to the engineering team to confirm that, but service fabric was used in a lot of use cases where people needed that ability to containerize things and have that really hands on approach, especially if something was more of a Windows Os focused and they just couldn't get it to work with A Ks. And this is really early days. I'm talking probably five years ago. I talked about service fabric a lot. I'll be really honest. I haven't touched service fabric in, in probably 4.5 years. Um, it was pretty unreliable as a service. It was great for abstracting, workloads and microservices. But we've really moved past that a lot and I think there are still customers using it. Um, I just haven't actually worked with it in 4.5 years. So, um, I struggle to really compare it. I, it's not even part of my conversation most of the time anymore. Ok. So I think we're good to do some screen sharing. Yeah. Oh, there's one other question about uh container apps having a limitation on a slash 23 subnet. Yes. When a um Azure container app is attached to a Subnet, it's got a limitation on the networking component. Uh Mohammed, the uh the uh product group has a public road map, have a look at that and see if it's in there. Um If it's not, you can also submit an issue and a suggestion. It is a little bit li limited at the moment. Yes, because it's uh yes. So I think there is a plan to do it, but they will have that on their public road map available and you can also open up as an issue. Um And if you work for a pretty good sized customer as well, um speak to your account team and they can also get in touch with the product group on that. OK. So folks should now see my screen April. Please keep me honest with respect to font size. I know it needs to be larger. Bigger. I'm getting old. Make it a little bit bigger, please. I'm getting older. Sorry. Not old. All right. That's pretty big. Yeah, hopefully that's enough for it. All right. So, we're gonna make a directory and we're gonna call this A KS demo and I'm gonna add 123. You don't need to do this. It's just to make sure that it doesn't collide with any uh leftovers I may have had um while I was writing uh the workshop. So, uh the first thing we're gonna do is gonna run the plume new command. This is how you initialize a Plumy program. So when you run Plumy new, you're gonna see. Uh we, there is a, we have like 206 starting templates at it right now. So I'm gonna filter that down. We're gonna go Reber Ease dash Azure. And unfortunately, my gigantic, uh my gigantic font size seems to have confused things. All right. So let's just do, I'll do it right. So it's Kineti Azure type. So, what this is gonna do is this is going to use our uh Curtis Azure typescript uh template and then you can fill in, we're gonna fill in some configuration values uh that will help uh initialize the program. So, uh we have a project name. We're gonna, that's fine. The default description, default, that's fine. Stack name DEV is the default, that's fine. Uh We're gonna use KTIS 1.26 0.3 which I believe is the latest supported version. Uh Then it's gonna ask us for an object ID uh in Azure active directory to make cluster admins. Uh I'm gonna use a specific uh from R org. And so then it's gonna ask you about the VM size that you would like for the worker nodes. Again, the default here is fine. Uh Yes, we'll start with three worker notes. That's good uh prefix for DNS again, the default, that's fine. And an SSH key that I will need to grab and that. No, I know uh all I'm doing is copying my SSH public key to the clipboard. It's uh and I was wondering what I'm doing in that tiny little font. There it is. OK? And we're gonna create this in West US two, which is close enough for me. Ok. So what's going on now? Well, if you've used a node before, this will look pretty familiar. It's doing an N PM install. Uh So it's going to install the Azure native provider, uh which is uh our recommended provider. That's the one that will give you a zero day support for all Azure features. And well, it's also going to install um uh no, it's not going in provider. We will be adding that later. So uh it's doing its thing and I believe in you and PM and I trust that you are going to finish in just any second. Now in the meanwhile, would you like me to get some elevator? Hold music for you? Yeah. Yeah, that'd be great. So while Josh is doing this, um I'm spinning up the workshop in a github code space. Um Do you want me to go ahead and show that while you're struggle busting? Um Let me just pull this up. So uh for those of you following along at home um I hope you can see my screen by the way. Yes, no. Can you see it, Josh? Yes, I can. OK, cool. Um For those of you following along at home, there is a in the handouts, you'll see the github repo. Um I have forked it to my repository so I can work on the code. So um while Joshua's got everything installed now, you can see how long it's taking us to get started. It's not forever, but sometimes when you're starting a project and get really frustrating because you need all these extensions. Um I would normally go down to local clone my code in VS code and start working away. Um I have started using github code spaces entirely. So if you guys are watching, you can see that Josh is on a Mac. I'm working on a PC, we're gonna work on the same code. Um Now we can do that in via in visual VS code. But if I use a github code space, it is irrelevant which machine I'm on and if the compute power in my machine is lacking, which often happens to us or really locked down, I can run a code space. Now, I actually did this uh in real life a couple of weeks ago, my laptop didn't want to work. I grabbed someone else's Mac and did my whole demo like and wrote code and deployed a website. All these things end to end in github using code spaces. So if I click on the code spaces tab here, um I've actually opened this and I just hit create a new code space. Um We can see that um we can do all sorts of things with it, we can do pre build, we can share the link. Um But I'm effectively running Josh's code here in this code space. It looks just like visual studio code, you get the same exact experience. Um And then some so all your extensions load in. Um Josh could send me a live share link while he's working uh from VS code and I could see his code on my screen and we could pair program and rub it up together and do this together effectively. Um But this is running in a containerized environment on Azure. It's a github product. Um But it's completely secured out. Now, the other thing you can do with a code space is you can build out what they call a DEV container uh which is a containerized environment. And then when you spin up a code space, all these things that Josh is installing are ready to go. So we don't have to wait to get everything pre configured. So getting started on a project is literally the 10, 20 seconds. It took me to spin up this code space. Um So I can see all of Josh's code, I can get started, I can open up a terminal window. Um And so while Josh is doing his thing on his side, I'm literally gonna be working from a code space and I'm gonna deploy everything into Azure at the same time just to, just to have the experience. Um You ready to have your screen back? Yes. Uh I think it actually did finish a while ago and the font size is messing up the rendering and I term so uh yeah, use a code space. Yeah. OK. So here we are, we're back in terminal town. Um You can see that uh uh N PM install has run. So I'm gonna fire a visual studio code in this directory and we're gonna take a quick tour as I make my font size larger. Ok. We're gonna take a little quick tour uh as to what pluming new generated. Uh So we have non modules. That's uh that's nothing uh Nothing particularly interesting. Uh If you've used note before, you know what's there? Those are your, those are your dependencies. We have git IOR file. Uh And then we have our index dot TS. And so this is, and I'll take you through this um pretty much line by line in, in just a moment. This is the entry point to our Pulumi program. This is where we define ah our, this is where we define our resources. Uh And so, and this is like this is where the, the action happens. Uh The other thing that's worth checking out is your plume. So this is uh plumy dot dev dot Yaml. This is the stack configuration file. So if you'll remember when I ran Pulumi new, it was prompting me to enter all these values. And so you might be wondering, well, where do those values go? They go in the stack configuration. Uh So if you wanted to create a Q A or prod stack, you can keep those configuration values separate. Uh again, like we could change uh our DEV stack for example, to have one worker note and then we could initialize other stacks and configure them to have more worker notes or uh we could deploy uh our stack uh in a different location. Uh And so like uh one of the things to know about Pulumi is when it creates your resources, you can either specify uh it will, you can either skip the name and Plumy will auto name your resources or you can specify an explicit name most of the time you want to use the auto naming feature. And that will allow you to deploy the same stack in the same uh location uh so that you don't have naming collisions. So going through this, uh you know, going through this, this index dot TS file at the top, we have our import directives. Uh That's, you know, pretty standard. Uh You can see that we're pulling in a certain name spaces from the Azure native provider. Uh This code right here. I'm not gonna go into it in like deep detail, but this is essentially pulling those config values uh from our configuration file here. So uh as moving along, so we here's our first resource. We're creating a resource group. Um You can also grab an existing resource group that's uh possible. We create a virtual network and three subnets. And uh you can see here by the way, this pattern that I talked about earlier where we have the output of one resource becoming the input of another resource. So we have our resource group resource here and then we have our name which is an output and that becomes the input uh on our virtual network. So uh after we create our virtual network, we create our subnets. Again, we're using our virtual network name output as an input to the subnet. And then finally, we are creating our managed uh cluster or a KS cluster. Uh This uh cluster is configured by default to use um a um Azure active directory for authentication. And um So we're not using any add on profiles though. Uh all of those are available there. Um We have our agent pool uh and we're running on Linux and we are, we have already set up our network profile. Uh The next thing that we do is we grab our uh container services uh credentials. Uh We do a little bit of um transformation on it in order to get the um cube config and then at the bottom, we uh use these export directives to create stack exports or uh stack outputs stack outputs in Pulumi um serve two purposes. First, it allows you to access values from inside that, that are inside a Pulumi program from the command line. So what I'll be demoing shortly is I will grab that Q config and use it to spit out a Q config file and then run a QC TL command. Uh In addition, you can also get values uh via stack exports. You can use values from one Pulumi stack and another Pulumi stack. So in a more um production like scenario, you might have a network team that defines your networks. And so you would use the out uh you would set your uh some of your networking stuff as outputs uh in the networking stack. And then uh a platform team might use those network outputs uh as inputs to deploy, say these clusters into those networks. So um I can now run the Pulumi up command and this is this Pulumi up is the com uh short for update. It is what will apply uh your plume programs uh changes. So the first thing that Pulumi up is going to do is it's going to give us a preview of what it intends to do. OK. So what do we see here? So this is Pulumi telling us what, what it is going to do if we choose yes to this prompt, it's going to create a stack because this is the first time that we have run uh this Pulumi program. Uh It's going to create our resource group or virtual network or subnet center manage cluster. So that's all the resources that we defined. In addition, it's telling us, hey, I'm also going to create these outputs. Uh And I don't know what they are yet, but I know what type they're going to be. So let's say yes to this. And so it's going to start doing its thing. It's gonna create the resource group, it's gonna create the virtual network which takes a few seconds, gonna create the subnets and then eventually it's going to start creating the A KS cluster. OK. Now, this takes about 3.5 minutes and I don't want to make you sit through that. So just bear with me as I find. So this right here is uh from three minutes in the future. And here we have our um here we have our um uh everything spun up. So what I'm gonna do here is just to demonstrate that we have working infrastructure is I'm going to run Pulumi just gonna copy the command. So I'm going to take that cube config and stick it in a file. And again, the way that you access, uh the way that you access Pulumi stack outputs is by the plume stack output command. Uh I have marked it as a secret. Um And so what that's going to do is this will uh put this into a Q config dot yaml file to hear and there it is and it has stuff in it, but because it has secrets, I'm not gonna show you the exact content and now we can run a cube CTL command using that cube configured. We're just gonna list the pods. And what this is gonna show us is all the stuff that uh A KS is running behind the scenes to make running your Cubs cluster easier. So this is uh this is all stuff that's running in the cube system, name space. This is not stuff you would normally interact with, but we can see that we have an up and running uh a KS cluster. So now that we had a cluster working, what are we gonna do with it? Well, let's deploy a workload. OK. And so how are we gonna do that? Well, the first thing we need to do uh is we need to pardon my scrolling. I'm gonna clear the screen here. We need to install the uh Pulumi car provider, which might already be installed, but the command would be N PM IP at plume slash. So yes, it has already been installed. But if you're running this on your own N PM is gonna do its thing for a minute. And now we have cars available. So uh we are going to uh so you'll need to add this import directive, which I already have here, which will bring in uh the Cubers provider and give you access to uh all of the um resources within the Cubs provider. So going back down to the bottom of our program, we are going to uh create a provider. So if you have an existing cluster, you don't normally need to declare a provider explicitly. But because we created our A KS cluster in the same program that we are uh deploying our, our, what we're going to be deploying our helm chart. We do need to do that because the um because the cube config from the A KS cluster is going to help us um is going to inform the provider how to connect to the cluster. So we got a new Kate's provider. We're gonna call this Kate's provider, that's the name of the resource. And then we're gonna say uh Cube config I notice by the way that we get very handy, autocomplete here, uh This is one of the advantages of using Pulumi is that um IntelliSense works. Uh just like you would expect with any other library they're using for your programming language of choice. So we set that cube config to be our cube config output and we save and so that will create the provider. And then next thing I'm going to get a little spicy. I'm gonna turn good hub copilot on and it's gonna get fancy now. Yeah. Let's see. Let's see. So Github Copilot, by the way, uh April, if you wanna say a little bit about it, yeah, I'll talk about co pilot. So um get up Copilot, I like to call it my A I pair programmer. So when I'm writing code um and I need help with anything. Um I have to contact switch, right? I have to stop what I'm doing. Use the magical search engine and find an answer. Um Copilot will make suggestions for you. It will help. We just released um a new feature, a lot of new features, Copilot called Copilot X. So um you can actually chat to Copilot to do things. It can help with your pr s, help with your comments and help you write a test in your code. Um Copilot again, I call it my pair programmer. So instead of having to go use my favorite search engine, switch my context around in the middle of what I'm doing. Um And also maybe phone a friend, right? Use a rubber duct pair a program or something. I can use copilot to help you with that. It's also really good in a few other ways. Um So I live in the UK, but I'm an American by birth. So we spell things differently in the US versus the UK. And I was working with a guy who spent like four hours writing his infrastructures code and put the letter S in instead of a Z for whatever he was doing and it took him like four hours to find it. Um And it was a little bit of a language barrier, right? So it's things like that and I think there's a lot of people here today that are English is not their first language, right? But you're writing code in English. So it's also great um helps lower that barrier to entry as well. Um And it's a really good tool to help us write better code. It's not always 100% but it's really good. So I use it a lot writing powershell or any kind of infrastructures clo excuse me, infrastructure's code language. Um to help me suggest things to help me write better code. And I think Josh, you're gonna turn it on and start making some magic happen. Yeah. So uh one of the ways that you can get copilot to do stuff for you is by writing a comment. So we're gonna deploy the latest version of the Vietnam slash word to chart all Right. Well, it's off to a, it's off to a rousing start because that's correct. Next line chart. That's correct. That's correct. That's correct. That's correct. And I do not need a name space, but I appreciate the hint and then. 000, wow. Great job. Everybody give a hand for github copilot, nailed it on the first try. Um, so you'll notice what we're doing here is, uh, we are using the Kate dot helm dot V three dot chart resource. Uh There's actually two ways uh to deploy Helm charts. The way that I'm doing it here um is going to run Helm locally and it's going to break out this chart into individual manifest and then you're gonna see that in the preview. So let's clear the screen. So how long would it have taken you to write that before Josh without copilot? Uh All right. So if I did not know uh anything about the cases provider, I would be going to the Pulumi. Um I'd be going to the Plumy Registry. I would be asking it. Uh You know, I'd be looking around probably for a tutorial and using Helm charts. Um You can definitely search within the registry for uh that resource, but like you'd be looking it up, looking up the examples. Um I would, I would definitely not have known like, oh, I have to fetch it from a because I'm not super experienced with Helm, I would have forgotten. Oh, it's not in the default helm charts repo. Uh So, you know, there's it significantly longer, I'd say factor of 10 since that was all of, you know, what, 30 seconds to uh to get those magical few lines of code. Ok. So, uh we're gonna run Pulumi up and Pulumi is going to let us know what it's about to do and uh behind the scenes. Uh So you can see that um it's going to create the provider, right? Because we just created that. And then uh because we're using the helm of V three chart resource, uh It's going to break down our chart into actual each um each single manifest in there. Um If we use the um the release uh resource, we would only see the helm chart itself. Uh I personally prefer uh the, the chart resource because it's a little bit easier to tell you like what is actually in that helm chart. So, yes, you want to perform this update. Yes, it's gonna do its thing. This is going to take about three minutes. So at this point, it might be a good time to show you what the Pulumi uh what Pulumi cloud does. Um You see this link right here, view and browser, I'm gonna click that. Actually, I'm going to copy the link and then I'm going to bring over my browser and we're gonna paste that. And so you'll know the first thing you'll notice is that all the output and I will make this larger all the output from the uh Pulumi uh cli is available in the Pulumi cloud back end. We can look over our chart or excuse me, our uh our plumbing uh stack here and we can get uh a full activity log. So um you can see um all of the things that we've done to this stack um in each update, you can see the uh resources that were added and removed. So we can click into the details here. Uh This is when I ran this a little bit. Um When we ran this earlier and we created the managed cluster, you can see how long it took to run. Uh we can go into uh so getting that activity feed, that's really helpful, right? Because you can see who changed what and when uh which is really, really important when you're tracking uh changes to production infrastructure. In addition, we can go to the resources tab and we get uh a handy list of all the resources that are in our stack. And for many of these resources, you will see a link uh that will take you to the um to the Azure portal. Oops, sorry, that is actually trying to take us to our Kubernetes uh portal uh to the uh to the Kubernetes. Um U I. Uh But if I click this managed cluster link that will open it in the Azure portal. So we can get a nice direct link to um our cloud providers console. Uh And then see the details of any infrastructure we've created. So that's like super helpful. Uh Another fairly new source uh new um feature is we have this resource search. Uh And so what this allows you to do is see all the resources um in your organization uh and search for them. So if we don't create, uh we can see that we have all of our resources here. Um There's a lot more you can do with this. Uh We will have an upcoming uh workshop actually uh on uh these uh these uh some of these features that we call Pulumi insights. Uh So, uh please, after um after this workshop is concluded, uh we'll take you to a landing page where you can sign up for a newsletter and that will let you know all of our upcoming workshops. And again, among them will be uh a workshop on uh plume insights. So that is the a brief tour of uh Pulumi Cloud. I definitely encourage folks to, to check it out. Uh But let's get back to our demo code. Uh II, I have two questions for you. Actually, one question for me, I'm gonna answer and then one for you, Josh. So uh Roderick asked about proprietary information. So his company um is shy of using Copilot and Chat GP T because I think the employees will give away their, their concerns. Employees will give away proprietary information. So um these, these A I systems are built on publicly available code so you can leverage this code in copilot. Um So you can leverage the publicly available code effectively that builds the machine, right? Uh The more we feed the machine, the more it gives back to us, that's why I could write really good Pulumi code a few minutes ago. Um But if you're working in a private repository, it does not share that. So, um if you're working in a private github repository with your company's code, it doesn't pull that code out if you're in an uh publicly facing repository. Yes, that is searchable. Um in terms of chat GP T it uses the same mechanism as well. So they are using publicly available things. Um So I guess if you're, if you're working in private repo, you should be OK. Now, in terms of access to those repos, there's a whole other slew of discussion around, you know, not putting passwords in your code, securing things. M fa um doing all the things you should be doing for authentication and protecting your, your code and your team. Um Question for you from Man meat. Uh Do Pulumi track the, the drift insight? I'm gonna, I'm gonna say it looks like differential for Naks. Yeah. So let's if we took our um our configuration, right? And we change this to be, we want five worker nodes instead of three and then I run, pull me up. Pulumi is going to show us the uh right. So you, so you see here, we can actually see the details um that in our managed cluster, it's going to update the cluster. If we look at the details that it's going to change our agent pool from 3 to 5. So we didn't have to explicitly say add to worker nodes to our cluster. We just say what our desired end state is. And Pulumi will figure out the steps to make it happen. So hopefully that answers your question. So I'm actually gonna skip this update. Uh So the next thing I'm going to do, oh is I actually need to add some stack outputs real quick. Uh I'm going to just copy these. So this is going to give us the uh low balancer IP uh of uh the wordpress chart that we just deployed right here. And so I'm also going to change this back to B three because I don't wanna update the cluster because that's probably gonna take a while, look at the screen and then I'm gonna run Pulumi up again. Uh Pulumi up by the way, does have a dash Y flag that will skip the preview and just do it. Uh That's fine. If you're learning, please, please, please do not do that on your production infrastructure uh because that's not safe. But when you're learning, uh the dash Y flag is pretty useful So we're gonna run a preview. Ok? It looks like our secrets are gonna change for this. I'm not exactly sure why it might, maybe the helm chart generates a uh a password uh behind the scenes, but in any case, we are going to get our uh front end IP, which is what we really need here. Ok, cool. So, uh we can now run plumy stack output um front and. Ok. Oops, just like that. Oh, I might not have, might not have saved it before I ramp pull me up. Try that. Let me know when you're, you're ready for your next question, Josh. Hm Sure. I can take a question now. Sure. Um Mark, that's a question. I Mark, I did see your, your question in Q and A and in the chat, it's a matter of interrupting Josh and his flow. So sorry, Josh. Not really sorry, not sorry. Um Mark has asked, can we inject normal code into a Pulumi project? Uh IE I use C# and when I create my cluster, I need to set up an entry in my host file before I can connect using cube CTL because it's in a private cluster needs VPN access with no DNS resolution. Can I inject normal C# code to handle this or is there a provider for doing this kind of thing? OK. So that is a, that is a, a detailed question. Um I can tell you that in general, right? You can mix and match regular code with your infrastructure code. That's one of, that's one of the reasons to use Pulumi in the first place. Um So if you need to set up an entry in your host file before you can connect, uh Right. So what you can do uh is so Pulumi has a command provider, uh and that's in our registry. Uh And so the command provider is kind of like sort of like a catch all. So if you want to call any external program, you can do that using the command provider and that will usually get you uh what you need. You can also create um your own. Like uh I, I believe it's called a dynamic provider. Uh That will allow you to essentially do um execute arbitrary code as if it was a um a resource. And I do not know because the demo gods loathe me why? You know, because I'm here, I'm the curse. It's fine. Yeah, I'm gonna cut, cut this out real quick and just wonder if I'm not in the directory that I think I am as you're going. No, I seem to be. Well, the good news is just see if we can get that output to appear. If not, I, I have a uh a separate stack that I've so. Oh, that you um yeah, called through uh man has a question, I'll answer while you are fixing that um has a question of uh something. What if something is changed on Azure the portal or within A K manually? When we do a plume refresh, will it update the stack state? Sorry. So, no, me when you, when if something's changed on your A KS clusters or on the Azure portal, uh someone's like manually changed something. Um When you do a plume refresh, it will update the stack state, you'll want to re push your code to get it back to the originating state. So state management effectively is what you're looking to do. Um I think his question was around reverting changes. But yeah, it will revert down to the version you have. The other thing is um this is where we want to think about limiting user access to the portal and to do the jiggy Pokery. So um this is where working out of like a pipeline like AC I CD mechanism is really beneficial um because you can prevent people from making those changes manually. But I think, yeah, he was asking about the version changing like someone manually does a year. Yeah. So if you change something in the console and then run uh Plumy refresh, it will say it will do the drift detection and it will um if you run Plumy update will return it to whatever it is in your Pulumi program. So when you're and, and most I ac tools, uh all of them as far as I know function the same way with that with that drift detection that, that when you use an I AC tool, your I AC tool from that point forward is designed to be the, the source of truth. OK. So I am having a little trouble here. So I'm gonna just switch over to back up stack and see we do have the front end IP here working and I'm going to bring this into the browser, which I'll bring that over here and we'll enter that. Oops. No, I'm sorry, not htps. Regular old http. And we can see uh that we have wordpress installed and working. And so that is the end of the demo and it worked, it did work. Um I can share some cool stuff with Azure container registry while we're there. Please. Please do. Yeah, let me pull up my ok, let me go and screen, share some stuff and also uh uh sorry if folks have any additional questions just asking to chat with you and a tap. Uh Now that I am not demoing, I can devote my full attention to answering. All right. So just wanna go a little bit further into a KS. Um So I keep all my images in Azure container registry um that I utilize so you can use things like Docker et cetera. Um I manage them from here. The other advantage of doing this from here is that um I can connect this into different security tooling. And the reason why I'm gonna talk about security tooling is when we deploy stuff, how do we manage and maintain it? So, we did have questions about, you know, um drifting our state. Um But we have talked about security. Right. I think it's, it's um um it's probably just one of those things that we talk about. So I'm running Azure container registry here. Um My images are sitting in here. I can do a lot of tasks. I can get insight into um all the registries I'm working and any other repos, et cetera. Um The other thing I can look at here that is really good is looking at what's Microsoft defender for cloud. Um We usually talk to people about using this um heavily. So when you're deploying something, so Josh has deployed everything today from his local. Um um What does Mac call it? The command prompt? Help me out? Yeah, command prompt. OK. Um Usually I'm doing deployments through pipelines. So whether it's Azure de ops, github actions, et cetera. Um I'm hooking in a registry scan for every image that I'm deploying to my containers. Um And this is effectively the uh output of what it has. So it's found some issues in my images that I'm using so I can stop the deployment. So not only am I managing the infrastructure that I'm building, but I'm also managing what actually is getting deployed. So in this very good use case, I specifically have um about 52 images that I'm I'm utilizing and we can see the security updates that are, that are an issue. I can go into it, see it. Uh I can see what the vulnerabilities are and then how to remediate it. So it's not just deploying A KS, but then how to manage that environment, right? Because we still have um our images on the back end. Now, this is really cool. Now, Josh was showing, you know, he talked about, you know, talked about other cloud providers, which is absolutely a valid point. Um I'm gonna pull up Microsoft defender for cloud. Um You can see all your cloud registries. So even though my images that I'm deploying into A KS are sitting in Azure container registry, um I can see my security posture across all the clouds so I can see what my Azure security posture looks like AWS GCP. Um And actually just, you know, get that full insight. I can also look at regulatory compliance. I actually sat with the customer this morning and they were specifically asking about regulatory compliance. And what's interesting about regulatory compliance and infrastructure's code is we have these legacy ways of doing things. So when I'm speaking to them about their compliance, they're like, yeah, it takes us a while to get an actual uh deployment for our infrastructures code because we have to have a manual check. Um And it's not part of an actual regulatory compliance. It's just an old legacy thing that's been in the fis industry. Um And in the government industry for where they are that just has kind of stuck around. So we talk about other ways to get around that. So they can still do their infrastructure's code, they can still run their test, they can still get into Azure. But before they go to production, they're using a manual check in their pipeline. So, um but they can go ahead, look at the defender piece here and say, right, everything ticks all the boxes we've hit all the regulatory compliance. Um And in a better situation, all their container registry images are healthy. Um And they can report that back to the organizations and stuff. So this is just a nice little add in that you can add in um when you're using a KS or any kind of um container images to help increase security. So I have this all hooked into the pipelines. I run to deploy all this stuff. Um And it just, it adds in as a task effectively. So when I go to deploy my infrastructure in my pipeline, I add this task in and it runs a check and if it fails my images fail, I like I had those vulnerabilities. It doesn't go um and it doesn't update that image. So that's also another way to help protect that state that's in my um in my clusters and everything else as well with the actual, the Os images um right. Open up for questions. Are there more questions out there in the world of any questions on? Yeah, questions on everything. Uh See Mark's question, we've answered that. So anyone else, anyone else? So um yeah, a lot of chat about in the comments about Pulumi A I um again using that hand in hand with Pulumi A I copilot give it a shot. Um It is, it is really a way to leverage learning. Um It's hard, I think as a net new not knowing anything sometimes um for those of you that haven't used Pulumi, a really fun thing to do is go to chat GP T and ask it to spit out um a brand net new um script for you and actually you can do it with, you can do with the plume A I as well. Can't you, Josh? Yeah. Yeah, I was about to share it. I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna go into chat GP T while you're doing the plume A I Cool. And of course, uh Plume A I is based on chat GP T. Uh So it's free. Let me shuffle some windows if it's free. It's for me as we used to say yes. So here's Pulumi A I. Um So I don't know, let's, let's ask it a question. So we had a question from Mohammed who said uh you have an example of custom DNS zone. I assume that that is an A KS cluster with a custom DNS zone. Uh If you could confirm that in the chat, um that would be great. Uh Let me see and scroll down. So I, yeah, I and I am not familiar with every A KS feature, but let's, let's just see. Uh show me how to create an A KS cluster that uses a custom DNS zone using the Azure native provider and see how it does. And by the way, you'll notice that uh we have a language selector here that will uh give you code in any of the languages that Pulumi supports. So it's gonna do its thing. One of the things that I learned actually using uh using Pulumi A I and I, I, I'm certainly no expert on large language models. Um or, or, you know, generative A I, but apparently this, this preamble that it always gives you actually helps it write a better code. Um I was kind of wondered about that. I was like, why do you always just basically give my question back to me? Uh You know, I actually told it to skip it because I told it to skip the preamble because I was very busy one time. Um But no, it's apparently it is much better to um to let it, let it do its thing. Yeah. The other thing I found too is it's, it's very literal when you're asking to do things. So actually chat GP T is down at the moment saying their systems are busy. Ironically. So that's cool, Josh is the bandwidth. Um Yeah. So use the Pulumi A I because there's higher availability. Um It's very literal in what you ask it to do. So any time I'm running any kind of new type of code or anything else um be very in what you ask it. Um When you use chat GP T it also explains to you why it came to that answer um or how it came to that answer, like it kind of works it through. So I find that really useful for any new language now or any problem, it talks me through it. Uh So I kind of understand not just an answer but like it's process to understand and get to that point. And this uh this code that it's, it's generating certainly, certainly looks plausible. Uh I couldn't tell you whether it was exactly correct. Yeah. So with something to do is export it, take the code and go run it and see how it does. Um II I wrote a blog about this, not with Pulumi. I was using powershell. Um I think I wrote it like two months ago and I literally had chat GP T write me some Powershell, spat it out and I went to deploy it. I went to deploy it with um github actions. So I just had to create a task to pull some content out of Azure. I wanted to know, like what resources I had et cetera. Um And then I also went to do it as an automated task using an Azure function. Um And both had pros and cons. So yes. And so this code, you know, it may not be um 100% correct, but it will certainly give you, you know, a very, very good uh a very, very good starting point. Um Yeah, so that's, that's plume A I. Um we could even do another plume I example, show me how to deploy engine X on Azure container apps using the Azure native provider. And of course, it's going to give us the preamble as it always does. And by the way, folks, if you have any more questions, please, by all means, uh let us know in the Q and A tab. So I saw that David Riley was, was roll, I can't say his last name Rola was uh in the conversation earlier. He literally lives behind me like a mile behind me, but he could probably like throw a rock and hit my office. Um Very cool. Yeah. Yes. So you can see that that Pulumi A I will, you know, it's uh we, we are using it internally by the way extensively. Um You know, it is, it is a great way because I mean, again, there are just so many uh providers and so many resources that like it's, it's impossible to cover every single use case. And Pulumi A I is like, just has been so so helpful at like, you know, getting, getting like, you know, a really excellent starting point for your plumbing programs. And I actually had um I was involved in a conversation recently about a team that their, their whole task as the infrastructure team was to build the infrastructure's code for the developers. The developers would request an Azure resource and like literally anything A KS app service, whatever video indexer. And the the job of this infrastructure team was to write um the infrastructure's code for it and they struggled because they didn't know always the Azure tech and they never went back to the development team to ask why they needed such and such thing. They just did it. So it was, it was interesting how that team worked and we like dug into that. But this is a great use case to say, right? They need to deploy a resource. We haven't done it before. Boom, go and do it. Cool. Uh We have a question. Uh Can we do a more advanced workshop on plumy features? Uh The answer to that is yes. Uh Please um join the Plumy uh community slack and leave some feedback there about what types of things you'd like to see. And also uh once we have concluded this workshop, you'll be taken to a landing page, you can sign up for a newsletter there. And uh if you do that, you'll be informed of all of our upcoming workshops. So chat GP T just came online for me. Oh, very good. Yeah, if you wanna, if you want to take over the screen by all means, um by the way, one of the things that uh that, that plume uh A I really, really helps with are, are the properties of container apps, whether you're defining like knee's manifests or um or container apps. Um You know that some of those, some of those options can get pretty nested and pretty deep and there's a lot of them. And so, uh Pulumi A I is super helpful for um, for like navigating that. So we have a question. Does Pulumi A? I have the same 2021 knowledge base limit as chat GP T. So we are all right. I am not 100% sure on this. I believe chat GP T three is the 2021 data set and please anyone, if I, if anything I'm saying is wrong, please correct me in the chat and I'll, uh make corrections and uh Pulumi A, I has an option to use a chat GP T four. And so I believe that has a more recently trained data set. Um I can test this offline because I, I, but I need to remember what the use case was. There was a use case where I was using an earlier version of Pulumi A I and it did not know of the existence of uh like a new major version of a, of a provider. Um By the way, I also am really nice to chat GP T um I, I say good afternoon or whatever and I ask it very nicely and I find it's very nice back. I think it's a weird little thing, but it's like a human, right? Um Yeah, so, yeah, so you can see that chat GP DS come back to me and like, yep, what kind of resources? And do you have existing code? Um And you can integrate that on all at once. So it's pretty smart, it's pretty nice. Um Is there any significant difference between Pulumi A I and Chat GP T except for the language selector buttons. So in uh chat GP T I could tell it what language I want it in whereas uh plume A I just select it um in terms of that they are using the same back end for the most part. So um and the plume A I code is uh open source. Yeah, I'm going to. So the the best difference with the plume A I code is that uh folks are contributing directly to that where Chat GP T is using a different knowledge base. But that's a great question. Um It, it, I, I have found that, that in, in the anecdotal sense it definitely gives um it definitely gives um like, you know, you have to enter a lot less in the actual prompt and that it tends to give, I think a little bit better code than, than just regular chat GP. T you also don't get rate limited on plume A I uh, I mean, unless you go, go bananas on it. Um, and I have found that, um, that uh lack of avail, like the T GP T is often, uh, is often like overloaded and not available. Uh, so that's, that's another reason that I've, I've grown to prefer uh Pulumi A I, yeah, I, I hit refresh a lot. I'm not gonna lie. Um So yeah, so I'm generating all the scripts we need here. Um But yeah, it's great to just go ahead and run, see how it works. Um I did this in Gola because that's my preferred language. Um But yeah, thank you everyone for joining. There's no further questions we might have to uh maybe end it, let everyone go get lunch or dinner, depending where they're joining from or breakfast even. Yeah, let's give it a few uh like another minute or so. But if uh you know, folks don't have any additional questions. What is your favorite food? Josh. Oh, my favorite. Oh man. Uh hard, hard to, hard to choose. Uh I have gone through many different cuisine uh phases in my life. Uh You know, the first time I discovered Indian food, I, I was eating it almost constantly. I was in college. Um You know, in my, once I was out of school, uh I really got into Sichuan uh cuisine. Uh, and lately I've kind of been on AAA, Japanese kick. Um, there's a really, really excellent um IAA, which is basically Japanese tapas um in, in Philadelphia that I've been enjoying. I also went on a trip to Spain recently and, uh the, uh, the top, I actually, I didn't even eat pie. I was in, I was in Spain for, for over a week and I didn't have at once, but I did have this amazing uh uh salted Cod. It's, it's called Bacalao. It's the same thing in Italian Bala. Um And it was like, it was like the, the best, it was, it, it was kind of tastes like the best locks I've ever had in my life. That's awesome. Yeah, that is awesome. Yeah, I love Spain. I love Spain. Um Good food. Yeah, I think traveling helps expand your, your breath of food choices. Yeah. Oh, so we do have one more uh question. I want to integrate with octopus deploy uh for installing the infrastructure. Do we have a feature to destroy the infrastructure after using it? Yes. And I will gladly share my screen because this is the thing I always forget to do. And I'm always worried that uh folks who are following along uh are going to forget to destroy their infrastructure. All right, let me get back to visual studio code and the magic command to do this clear thing. Uh It's plumy destroy. When you run this command, all the resources will be shown as deletes. And then you say if you want to perform this destroy, you can choose. Yes, and it will do its thing. And that will take about uh about 35 minutes to fully run. And you can just throw that down in your pipeline for octopus deploy. Um The other thing you can do again as your DEV ops any of the C I CD tooling. Um I have a task or sorry, not a task, sorry, a github actions workflow in my repository. So I spin up like DEV test environments um before the things go to production like a maybe a DEV environment. Um When I close my pull request for every code submission for changing my infrastructure's code, it pulls down that DEV environment. So when I close the pull request, I have merged into my main branch, uh it destroys it automatically and that's an auto uh that's a triggered one based off of any pull request, closing with a certain tag on it so that I don't have to remember to do that. So that's the benefit of having things kind of in automated triggers or C I CD pipelines as well, especially using different environments and stacks. And we do have a uh Pulumi provider for Azure DEV ops, by the way. Um So if you want to define your uh your pipelines using Pulumi, which by the way is a practice I strongly recommend uh because pipelines uh regardless of the cloud provider you're using, often take a long time to set up, especially around permissions and being able to programmatically recreate them. Uh can be very, very uh helpful and a huge time saver. Uh So some links to uh continue your journey. Uh If you go to Pulumi dot com slash kubernetes, that'll give you all of the uh rad features uh of using Pulumi and Cotti uh for more workshops. We have a static page uh that well, it's not static. It lists all of our upcoming workshops, but you can also sign up for our newsletter and you will get uh notified of all upcoming work uh workshops. Uh If you go to plumy dot com slash, get started uh that that'll uh slash docs slash gets started that will uh give you some intro material if you're not yet familiar with Plume. Uh Our examples repository has a ton uh of examples. Um It's, it's just github repo. So if you search for you, the um cloud provider or resource type that you're looking for, it should come up in the search results. And then if you want to see our complete list of providers that is available in the Plume registry, which is available at plume dot com slash registry. Uh So with that, like to thank everybody for your attention. Uh please stay in touch.

---
