---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Git Glamorous With GitHub"
title: "PulumiVision - Git Glamorous With GitHub"
meta_desc: |
    Matty is joined by Rizèl Scarlett, Junior Developer Advocate at GitHub. They'll explore fun things like using remote development, testing infrastru...
url_slug: pulumivision-git-glamorous-github
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Git Glamorous With GitHub"
  description: |
    Matty is joined by Rizèl Scarlett, Junior Developer Advocate at GitHub. They'll explore fun things like using remote development, testing infrastructure code, and more!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-23T08:04:23Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/2uQEIYuJBZ4
transcript: |
    Uh oh, that also reminds me um I should give you the, so you were not able to get into the like consolidated chat. Like I am like you can't type in it. So if you wanted to chat with people, um you could either. Do you have Twitch? Do you have a Twitch account? Yes. Ok. Let me give you the, the like the Twitch pop out chat. So you won't have the um I'll give you the URL so it'll give you the chat but without the video and then, and then you won't have to worry about like the, the lag and stuff. Um If I can remember how that goes, let's see. Come on, switch to pop out chat. Ok. So, so I think if you go there that should give you the chat. Ok. And is this muted? Let's see, let's go. Actually, I don't even care about that. Ok, we'll move that over there. Ok. Hey, people are joining. Oh shit. Wow. I mean, shoot, sorry, we've yet to just, we, we aren't really sure what our uh you know, last, last uh last week when, when my colleague, Kat cos was on and she asked, you know what our profanity policy was. I was like, I don't know, we keep it PG 13 which means, like, maybe, maybe one F bomb. But, you know, we're trying to keep it kind of keep it a little prof, but who knows? We'll see where we go. Um, but yeah, it was, it was, it was funny when we started because I was kind of like, I was telling, like, ah, the first few minutes it takes a minute for people to join blah, blah, blah. And then, so I'm like, let's set some stuff up and it's like, oh, man, look, people have joined the stream. People are here. Um So anyway, we are, I am joined uh by my friend Rozelle who is a developer advocate over at github and we're gonna be talking about get, so, get ready. Maybe this episode needs to go beyond PG 13. If we're talking about, get the profanity might. Uh, I don't know when I use, get, there's a lot of swearing so I can understand that. I swear a lot when, when I'm re basing. Yeah, maybe, maybe you can explain, rebates, like, and, and help me figure it out because I've been using get for like 10 plus years and I still never remember which direction is what. And I'm just sort of like, I guess I got that right. Um, but we'll dig into that in a minute. Uh If you're in the chat you know, uh, we'd love to hear your thoughts on and get, I know. Uh, so Rozelle just, uh, for anybody who doesn't know, just like, maybe a little background of, like, you know, what do you, what do you, what do you do? What's your, you know, how did you end up on this nonsense with me? Yeah. So, like, my, I'm a developer advocate. I'm a junior developer advocate at github. I've been here for like six months. Um Before that, I was a software engineer. I like different startups for like three years. And how did I end up on here? You DM me and I was like, heck yeah, like sure, what else am I doing? Um So we, we've got a couple of different things that we're gonna kind of talk about. So one thing actually that I think would be interesting. Um So one of, you know, as, as always anything to do with technology, people like to fight about things constantly, right? Like, should you, this should do this, blah, blah, blah. So one of one of the things that, and sometimes I feel like unintentionally it verges on gatekeeping. You know, we're gonna put that part aside for a minute. We're just gonna say this isn't good fun. But, you know, like using the command line versus a gooey, like what's sort of you? I like to, I have my opinion. I like to hear your opinion. Um by the way, and in a chat. Tell us your opinion. None of your opinions are wrong unless you disagree with me. So, yeah, for me, I prefer the command line because that's how I learned. And I, I don't know, I can visualize it better that way. Um But I will say when I first started coding the command line did look scary. I was like, oh my goodness, this looks like what I see people in movies do. But now now that I look at movies, I'm like, they're not even typing even, it's not even a thing. But I will say like if you're new to coding, like I know one thing that like github is noticing is like a lot of new developers, they're not necessarily comfortable with the command line. So they haven't been using version control and they're like saving all their code in like dropbox and stuff. So if you're new and, and you're like, oh man, the the command line sucks and I'm confused by it. Like you can use the Gooey, you can use github desktop and everything else. Also, if you're not new and you've been doing this for 10 plus years, you can still use the Gooey sometime. And it's not that I'm scared of the command line. There are just certain things now. It depends. I haven't used github desktop in quite some time and it was kind of, so I have my own preference. Um And so I'll, I'll actually show you a little bit. Maybe about like, uh, why I, why I like to use the, the, the, the gooey a little bit, um, or use a gooey. I shouldn't say the, because there's lots of different ways and they do different things. Um, so the one that I really like to use, which, uh, I'm unfortunately is not free but this is not me shilling for them. Although, you know, maybe they could give me a discount code. Yeah, it's called a tower and let me see if I can make this bigger. Um, oh, you froze for me? Oh, I don't know if she froze for me and everybody else or can y'all tell me in the chat if it's me that's frozen or, or Matt? Mhm. Let me type in the chat. I feel like this might not. And ok, there we go. It was, it was my um, it was uh our internet just uh, just died. You can hear me now. Yes. Yes. So we're sitting there as it's going and I'm hearing this er, and then I hear my son from the other room going is the wifi down. So of course, uh Pulumi Vision fans notice that we have just not been having the best of uh experience. Although Brazel, your, your video is frozen for me. I'm not gonna try to re add you. Why don't you turn your, I don't know. Hey, can everybody or am I moving now? There you go OK, good enough. Hey, sports fans, OK. Back to, back to technology to the technology we intended to talk about. So this tool is called tower. And also, let's see, um what, what I was trying to do was figure out if there was a way to make this bigger. Um But there really isn't, but that's OK. OK. So I'm gonna go find a repo and like there's a good one. So this is, this is Pulumi Hugo. So this is actually the repo that we use for Pulumi for our blog and docs and you know, kind of like a lot of stuff that drives our website. And so part of the reason is I know there's gonna be a lot of activity in there. So I like it because it gives me visualization of the branches and stuff I can see where I'm at. Um But there's actually a couple of really neat things in there too. It has, I don't have this all set up right right now because, but you can actually connect it to if you've got it synced into like your github account. So if I were to look at here, let me, let me actually find a different one. Oops, let's do. This one might be right. OK. There we go. OK. Cool. Right. So this is, this is the Devo stays website one. So I can see all the PR s and I can actually check out that pull request directly and then that'll create a local branch of it. I can do all my stuff. I can connect to it. Um And then Oh Branches Review. Oh, interesting. That's new. Uh But mostly it's because I always get confused about Stashes. So I need my Stashes like in a place I can see them um which really helps and then also just like the diffing helps me a ton when I can visualize it this way. Um And, and yeah, so I, but I also use uh I use the cli a lot too like, like sort of um it just a lot depends on what I'm trying to do. And if I'm trying to like just sort of do my day by day, little bits, it's, it's still much faster for me to do, get check out dash B branch name, be done with it, right? Do my get pull, do all that then go into the gooey. But when I'm especially doing kind of uh some complicated cherry picking or I want to commit some files but not others or whatever. And I really want to see what I'm doing. So I, I think the answer to me is, should I use the command line or a gooey is the answer is yes, right. Like you can use both in conjunction. Um And yeah, there's a lot of interesting stuff that comes on that. So, and I know, like I said, tower is not free. I know there's another tool, people, like a lot called Get Cracking. Like, heard of that one. Yeah. And I think it's very similar, that one I think is free. Um, so, yeah, I'd be, and, you know, it's kind of that, that's sort of one of the things. Um, do you have any, like, fun little, what's something about, get that, you know, now, because now you're at get, or even about, get hub, you know, something with this workflow that you wish you had known before? Like is there something where you're like, oh my goodness, if I had known this like a year ago, you know how much time I would have saved, you know. Yeah. Um For me, it's been getting to use of Copilot. Um I mean, I just didn't have access to it because I was still on the waiting list. I was gonna say also because it sort of didn't exist before you worked there also a little bit, right? But I really like it because um OK, basically, I don't have like an example to show, but basically one time I was like trying to um insert somebody's name into like this text file and it had to be like inserted in like alphabetical order and all that. Like it was like their at handle and everything. It was mad, confusing and I was like, oh, I don't really feel like sitting here and trying to figure out the algorithm for that and then I like wrote a comment. Like I, I forgot I had get Copilot installed. I wrote a comment. I'm like, we'll need to do this. We'll need to do that and then get hook Copilot just generated all the code for it. And I was like, oh, thank you press tab like literally my, the experience of coding was so much faster than I thought it was gonna be. But yeah, that's like the, the main thing also, this is not, I, I learned about this before I started at github, but it was, I learned about it a little bit later on, like maybe my third year as a software engineer. Actually, it's about get called Get bisect. And that helped me to find bugs easier. So basically, you can like, if I remember it properly, you can compare your commit from before you've seen a bug to the current commit that you're on now and it'll help you like um filter or figure out when that bug appeared because a lot of times I was like trying to debug things and I'm like, I don't know when this happened why this started happening. Um But it kind of helped me to like decide between, OK. Here's when the code was actually working. Here's when the bug was introduced and then I can like debug a little bit faster. I think that's it. Get bisect is one of those two where like, it's just the fact that when you were trying to explain it. It's like, how do I get this in there? And then it's like you do it and you're like, oh, right. I get it. It happens. That's, that's where that comes in. And I think there's unfortunately a lot of things in get that are like that where they just are conceptually hard. And one of the things where I think it gets complex is a lot of times we just want to be able to use something and not have to dig into the how. But I know, like, I have tried to read the o'reilly book on Get three times and like, it's, it's interesting but it is like, really in the weeds about just how get works under the hood. And I will say this, like, the more you understand what it actually is doing all the porcelain, all the stuff on top of it makes more sense because a lot of it doesn't make any sense. You're like, why do I do this? And that's why there's that right, that XK CD, which is like, you know, as soon as something's Janky on my repo, I just blow the whole thing away and I go first, I have like, the one person I know and chat that I ask and if they can't fix it, I just delete the whole thing and, and rec, right, like, which is not me, that's not a way to live your life except that it is the way that I live my life that was in boot camp. I was, there was so many deleted repos. It was sad. Well, just sometimes because it can get to and what's interesting. Um So I was thinking a little bit, this is sort of a get hubby thing, like sometimes features get in the way of like a workflow. So one thing that I found really interesting, so we use, you know, uh I saw the repo, you know, we use it, we have a get repo we use for like, for example, writing blog posts that that's how we publish blog posts, that plum me. And so then they go through code review, that's sort of how, you know, so say I'm gonna write a blog post and then one of my colleagues, you know, they will look at it and read through it and make comments and adjustments. And one of the things that's interesting is so my, one of my colleagues, uh she really likes to do suggested commit. So that's the thing you can do this. OK? But here's the thing. OK. So imagine I have a blog post and that blog post is one big file. And so let's say my colleague, let's call her Laura because that's her name is going through and she makes like like 15 different suggestions. There's no way for me to my knowledge. And if you know, or anybody else knows, there's no way I can squash all of those suggestions into one commit. So what happens is I go through all of them and not only does that end up with a whole bunch of commits. Um But because on every commit it builds a preview, it runs our C I it ends up like it's just so that, yeah, it's there. I don't think there's a way you can say like, you know, again, because that's what you'd want to do is just sort of be like, like sort of stage them, but you're not staging them because, well, you're committing, but it's committing into Get Hub which makes the, the C I run right. It's uh you're, you're, you know, it should be a get like, there should be a way that you could put the button that would be like add it and then you commit all the change, you know, what, what you would do on your, your side. Um So it's really good for, if you've got a couple of things, if you're doing a big deep review with lots of suggested changes, it ends up making for a really messy. Now, of course, if you're gonna squash everything on the merge and when you merge the pr your history will be fine. But in the process, especially if you have a long build or even worse, a bill that uses a lot of minutes or something. And you've now had that one thing, you know, required a whole bunch So, oh, that's good feedback. Actually, I didn't even think about that, like multiple suggestions. Oh, I didn't think about that. Good point. Yeah, I don't know. But I love the idea. And then there was, there was something I know I was suggesting uh a different for this is also just why everyone's workflows are different. Um Because you'll, you'll go and you'll say like, hey, I wish you did this thing or whatever. And I'm trying to remember exactly why. But I suggested to one of my colleagues on a community project that it, I really would appreciate if you know, they used suggested so that I could just smash. Yes, I'm fine with it. I don't have to go and translate your comment into my code. And I think I was, I was actually trying to find when we had the chat about it about why uh this person told me they don't like doing it and it was from a different project they were on. And I think it's because it was something to the effect of like those commits don't end up getting signed the same way or something. So it was like, again, but it all depends on what you're, what you're trying to do, right? Like I didn't know that either. My ideal way is how you said I do like that. People just suggest it instead of like, oh, here's what you should do. And I got to reopen vs code and figure out what they meant right now. This is gonna drive me crazy that I can't find this, this chat anyway, whatever I was later on. Maybe, maybe I'll post it on Twitter. Um, or, you know, on the off chance, you know, Bridget Krom that you're watching this stream. I know you're not, you could remind me, uh, why you don't like doing things that way. Um, anyway, good stuff. Ok. What, uh, anybody in the chat have any uh like, cool get suggestions while you're thinking about it. But I think one of the things that would be fun that we were starting to talk about, it's not really about get, but I was asking Rozelle like some stuff that she might want to talk about and she's like, well, I have this VS code extension I wrote and I'm like, you did what? So I would love like a little, like, if we could kind of take a look at it, you could talk about it a little bit, tell us about it, but then maybe kind of show it to us a little bit. Like, not demo, but just actually, I'd much, I'd, I'd be totally demo it, but I'd be, I'd be really interested to sort of see how you create it, like what it looks like behind the scenes because um I'm intrigued. I always, actually, it's funny because I always was like, well, it would be cool to like, write some like Pulumi visual studio extension, but resilient food, there's no such thing because it's all just in the language, right? Like what would a Pulumi vs code extension do I guess? I don't know. I mean, it wouldn't be a language helper because that just comes from the package, it comes from the language. Um Yeah, what would you do? I mean, could you do like uh because like the github action for Pulumi like does a preview? Yeah, you could do that in the S code extension form too. I mean, it would just be whatever it runs at the command line, you know, I mean, it would be very exciting but I don't know, I just think about that but in the meantime um yeah, let's uh let's let's see what we got. I feel like let me know when you're ready for me to Yeah, I can show it on. Yeah. Yeah, you can, you can go ahead. Ok? Actually because I'm gonna do a couple things, but basically I, I just want to make sure that I, I didn't like surprise you by sharing your screen that has like your password manager on it or something because I know that I'm the one that does stuff like that, that you, I do have that up. But like for a reason, but then I just realized I am not running this locally anymore because the vs code extensions published. So I don't need to do this. But basically um I'll demo it. And then after that, I will like talk about the code behind the scenes. But basically what this VS code extension does is it deploys your rep to get her pages. And the reason I made it is because vs the VS code team at Microsoft does like a workshop for people who are like learning to code and they wanted like an easier way for them to deploy to get hub pages rather than like leaving the ID E going to github and doing a whole bunch of stuff. So I'm gonna just like make a fake repo. It's uh there's so many in this. You should, you should sometime sometime like uh should do a stream where I'm like where it's like, you know how people like collect domain names. I feel like Dell people like have bajillion of repos and local source code folders that are for one thing ever. Yeah, like, like I have this folder that's called, that's, it's like it's just called like, yeah, my, my SRC folder is organized for stuff I really work on and then there's just a bunch of random folders for like live stream with J demo for new, you know, like literally how I like then you never clean it up again, right? Oh I go, it's a mess. Like a fake repo already exist. Oh God. Wow. OK. That's pretty amazing. OK, cool. Well, yeah, like look at my OK. This one I have a ton of fake users too but look like fake rebo random, get hook page, good random like this is a mess. But anyways, so basically I made a repo and what I'm gonna do in VS code is I'm going to press my VS code extension. I think it's already installed and stuff like that here. And if I do command P that pulled up the extensions deploy to get hook pages and right here, I don't know if you guys can see it if it's Yeah, that's, that's a little better probably. But yeah, um it shows like a list of the Rios I have on this user because I've already like logged in and authenticated. And if I press fake Rabo um and press publish on the left hand corner, right hand, whatever it says your github page will be available in a few minutes. Um So github pages to be deployed uses an action. Um So I kind of gotta wait for it to finish building and deploying before it like actually generates the URO. So we will wait. Does github pages still do that thing where it like it deploys to like a different branch in the repo thing? That's how they work, right? Like, yeah, I think so from my knowledge. Yeah. OK. But so like you're because if you go into the into fake repo, right? Like it, it'll have the code, it doesn't really have it, right? But if, yeah, there's oh maybe, maybe it doesn't anymore. Maybe it changed. Ok. You used to. Well, because the theory, I guess was that you would have a different branch, like you'd have the github pages that were for your project. So you didn't want it in Maine. But it was actually really confusing to, like, maybe it's an option now to see what branch to use. But it used to be. I think it, oh, pages. Oh, there it is. Right. Yep. Yep. Yep. That, that's, yeah, I think because I only have the main branch. Yeah. Ok. Ok. That's actually interesting to know. Um, but hey, but, uh, but I could talk about like, how it, yeah, I wanna see how you did the, how you built the extension. Yeah. Ok. So it cut, it was a lot for me to figure out like the patterns that they use. I don't know, it was a little different than I'm used to. Um, but there's like a file called Extension Talk TS, which I use typescript for this and nobody judged me because I, I use any, a lot in here. Um, I, like, I just, I was just getting lazy on done. Right. Yeah. Um, but basically first it has, um, so sorry, I didn't want to interrupt. I so is, is extension kind of the entry point if you would. I mean, I know it's not really, but that's like you have that and then you got, it looks like you've got other functions and stuff in, in other files and, but the minimum you have is an extension dot TS or what can you write these in? Do you know you could write it from what I've seen? You can write it in a language of your preference. Um, I didn't see any like limitations. I just wrote this in typescript. Yeah. But yeah, this is like my, my entry point javascript file. Um, and basically the first thing I had to do was get the credentials for the user. And that was actually pretty interesting for me because I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the the get hub credentials. Yes, because you're talking to get hub like so like you don't always need this but you do because you're, yeah, because I needed to make an API call that that's good for this clarification. Absolutely. I need to make an API call to get the list of um the users repos and that's like something that you need an access token for first. So at first I had it like hard coded here, like GHP, blah, blah, blah, whatever it is. And I was like, I have absolutely no idea like how you will get um the user's access token. But there's like a thing in VS code like VS code has an API um So you like use this thing called VS code dot authentication. It gets the session that you're in. Um And this, I don't know how to explain this part, but basically it'll save your VS code like your authentication password inside of your keychain access um thing image here. Does that make sense to you? I, I think so. Um I feel like maybe not. So let me see. Oh, wait, let me, let me, let me see that again. Sorry, I was, I was, I was tweeting to tell everybody about the interesting things you were talking about and then therefore missed the interesting thing you were talking about. Um So you're, you're pulling the, the um access token for um keychain. I'm putting it into keychain. Oh OK. Yeah. How does that work? Is that the, but that's not the OS keychain. That's the, that's the, the access token for. No, no. OK. But it's like does VS code have a keychain? Is that the? Oh yes, that's what I meant. It's not like because on a Mac there is keychain, right? And I was like, OK, if you're because I, because I actually do that with secrets for like for example, if I have environment variables that are secret, I put them in the Os the Mac Os keychain and then my bash profile knows how to access them at source time. So that's why I heard keychain and I was like, wait a minute, how does that work? But it's so, so vs code itself has a, so you're getting that credential and you're accessing it from codes, keychain. Yeah, because I'm gonna book this, I can show basically if I run it locally. Let me see. Uh I'll have to uninstall it. But yeah. Ok. We, we really do like, basically it'll, it'll go through that. And then another thing that was interesting is like figuring out the scope of like, because each access token has like, what do you want? Like what permission do you want to give for this? Ok. So at first I was like, yo, this um API call was not working, but apparently I had to like, give it a go of like getting access to the repo and my workflow and to the user's email. So once that was all done, I had access to Octo kit and I can like make um API calls that way. I hope that makes sense. But OK. All right, cool. Then after that, um I have another file called that handles all the like repository stuff. Um And first I got the list of reels and I did like an API call using Octo kit and basically it got the list for the users right here. Um And it returns that list. Um And it only returns like the top 10 repositories. I have no clue how to like make it return any more than that. I was gonna say you would think you would want it to show more, right? Well, well, or not. I mean, it's or you should be able to do a type ahead because, like, thinking if it's gonna list all of them, like, that's some people have, like, a lot of, you know, maybe, let me see if they have a, and the type definition for this, maybe they have like a limitation or, like, you can increase it. Well, I think also because I've done a few things with, with github api and you definitely, you know, like, the, the results can be pageant too. You know what I mean? So that you're only because I've run into that with, uh, I have a long, long abandoned, uh, change log generator called Bowie because there was actually a really good change log generator that's written in Ruby that I've liked for a long time. But it was making me have Ruby exist in projects just so that I could use the change log generator. And so I wrote one in Go, but it doesn't require go. It's just a binary. Um, but that's where I was starting to run into. It was one of those, one of those things that's fun. Like, again, this is a good testing story. I was like, cool because I would point it against some of my own repos. And I'm like, awesome because what does it change long general after it has to go and has to find all the closed issues, all the stuff and figure out what's changed and blah, blah, blah. And then I pointed it against this is when I was working at chef a few years, more than a few years ago, I pointed it at one of our repos and it just blew up because it was like, because I think I pointed at Chef Chef at, like the core chef repo and there were like thousands upon thousands, you know. So it's like, how do you pageant? How do you do whatnot? And I don't know, maybe I'll dust that one off. Maybe that'll be a fun. Uh, Future Stream is, we'll, we'll go, uh, we'll go play with, uh, the Bowie by the way, if in case anybody's wondering, actually I'll just, does anybody know why I called it Bowie? This is a stretch. So it's ok. So think about Bowie as in David. Bowie as in cha, cha, cha changes. I was trying to think of a bad part about changes and I was like, I came up with Bowie. So, yeah, I like that. So, yeah. Cool. Ok. Um, so how do you like what? Well, well, like, ok, so you, you did the thing where you have commands right? Where you do the command palette? Like how, how are those defined? Yeah, there's this thing vs code. Quick pick it, pick. Yeah, I, I actually, I'm not really sure if I wanted it really that way. And with that little toast that came up, I wanted a better way than that, but that's what I found that could work. But, yeah, I was using VS code, quick pick item and it like it takes in the these properties like a label, a description and a detail. So those are like the um like the little words at the bottom I think is the detail and then the label was the icon that I had. Um I don't know if you remember it, but basically, yeah, yeah, I saw the little Yeah. Um but yeah, that's how I did that part. And what else did I do? Basically, I just looped through, like I just showed that list, loop through it. And if someone clicks one of the, where is the click section? Yeah. So if there was a selection, then it would run this function called Post to get her pages and that's just the API call post and to get hook pages. So it was pretty cool. I liked it. Oh, that's fun. That's fun. And I, I'm gonna try to think about like what a Pulumi Extension would do because again, it's not gonna be about testing or type because the language, that's the whole point, right? Is you get all that stuff for free. But hm, could be something, could be something fun in there. I dropped the, uh, and I put it in the over the Sochi AODA and get help if you go to Matt Stratton slash Bowie. My favorite thing is you look at the installation directions. It's like you can install Bowie in multiple ways. You can do, go get, you can do home brew. Everything else is to do not yet available. You want to install it with chocolate eat. Not yet. You want to install it with. Yum, not yet doesn't even work. Who knows? I'm about to start. Yeah, I should go back to it. It was, uh, I think my bigger problem really was, um, that actually I need to go back. I had a, I had a, uh a get hub bot that was running for a while that on a lot of my repos that would automatically close issues that were stale. So the problem with that is then when you have a project you don't touch for years, all the issues you make for yourself that matter, just get closed, right? Because I, I'm a big believer. It's funny, it's very fun to look at projects that are mine and I'm the only contributor and look at how active the conversations are in the issues, you know. So like, you know, there'll be, there'll be an issue that, oh this one, they have a whole bunch. But like there was some, I remember there was one project I was working on and literally, I was the only contributor and there's an issue that has 35 comments on it and they're all me arguing with myself. It's just me talking to myself. But the thing is as much as we joke about it that actually is really effective because you don't necessarily remember what you're thinking at any given time. So it's giving you that sort of capture of like as you're working through it, you know, like, OK, OK. So, yeah, sometimes I record myself like that way you can go back because I'm like, what was I writing? Like, I don't know. Yeah, I love that. Cool. Um Let's see, there were a couple of other things we were, we were thinking were neat. Um So OK, so talk about this invite automation because I don't know what it means, but I know that invites are annoying. So it seems like I would be interested. Yeah, I think you would. Well, you have no choice because I'm gonna show it. All right. Fair enough. There we go. So basically, um I did this for both G code and github. So github has like um a maintainers group. Um But for the PM it's a lot for people to be like, hey, I wanna get added and then we go and add them in like the back and forth. So she wanted like an automated way to just have them be invited. So I made something where like if they start at, at first I was gonna make it like completely automated. But the issue is it could be someone who's like a spammer or bought someone who doesn't actually belong in the maintainers group and we still needed some type of like filter. Um So basically, if they start the repo um It opens an issue. This is a, a github app I guess opens the issue and then that issue will have, let me just show, let me just show my screen and you're gonna see there's 39 issues open because I haven't approved people yet. But uh these, some of these people don't have, haven't wanted. Can I, can I share your screen? Oh, yeah. Sorry, go ahead and show it. OK. Sorry, that's fine. Let me see if there's someone that's a good example. OK. Yeah. All right. So when people start the re this repo, it'll open an issue. That's why there's like 39 pending issues right now. Um And we can like look at Nerd for 000 F whatever. So as soon as that opens, you get this little in invite automation bot that ask them a couple of questions that just bet to see like is this person truly a maintainer? And they'll comment answering, I guess Nerd didn't really answer all the questions but, but the, the, the theory is there. Yeah, the theory is there. And then again, this is not really me answering. It's a bot saying like we received your request. Um And if I wrote approved, um maybe I can find like a closed one that was like a test one for myself. Yeah, I have a ton. If I write approved, then it'll say like, congratulations another response and it'll send the invitation to the person and they'll accept it and get added to the Maintainers group. I didn't show you the code for that. Um, let me see. Oh, I'm not supposed to share that. Um, um, actually I can just open it up in code spaces. Ok. Well, that's another thing that we can see. That is cool. Yeah, but I thought I, I had fun making this. I thought it was interesting. Post faces is not recognizing that. Oh, there we go. Sometimes doesn't recognize that I'm a staff member. Cool. And probably people on your, your stream probably know what code spaces is, right? I maybe I would like, actually I would like to know a little bit more about it because I use something similar. So I use um git pod a lot for work. Yeah. So, but I'm, I'd like to know a little bit more about Coach Spaces because I'm interested to see uh how it could um could work for some of the stuff that I'm that I'm doing. Um I, I have not used GI pod but I heard a lot of good things about it. Um I feel like most parts are obvious it's just your browser. I mean ID inside of your browser. But what I like about it is it takes all the configurations that you already had set in vs code and puts them in here. So um that's the, that's the extent that I'm familiar with and like it for. But you can do like um like run a container or something like that, right? So like, I'll tell you the reason I like using Git pod for workshops. Like for example, let's say I'm teaching a Pulumi workshop. What I don't want to have to deal with is like, what are all the things you have to install on your computer? Like make sure you have Pulumi installed whatever. So if you look at like our workshops that are in git pod, one of it, you know, it loads a container that will have uh will have Pulumi installed in it, it has whatever language, you know. So it's like if we're gonna teach in Python, then you'll know it's running in a container that has the version of Python that we understand and we want to talk about. So you don't, so you don't have to deal with like, oh, which Python do you have or did you install Pulumi, did you do whatever? And even to the fact that like um if I'm teaching a Kubernetes workshop, I can actually temporarily very quickly. I, you know, I spin up a temporary cluster and I can shove the Cobe config into everybody's container so they have access to it. So, yeah. No, you could do that. That, that, that is the, that's true. Good point. But the difference is that uh coach bases cost money, right. Yeah, I think that's why. Yeah, but I, I, yeah, I do. Yeah, it does cost money. It is for enterprise. And I, I still think GI pod, from what I've heard, it sounds pretty cool. So I wouldn't knock it at all. But, yeah, I think it's like similar features. Just that github costs money. I kind of want to play with it because I'd like to, I, I think I will because I'd like to see, I think it has a different use case too because one of the things that's nice with Git pod is you can just sort of anybody, you just sort of put the big button on your read me if someone just wants to fire it up, which is like code spaces, they're incurring something, right? You know, but like I've even, yeah. Um but yeah, I, I'm, I, I wanna play with a little bit because there's, there's gotta be some good mix for both. I wanna look at like little key, but maybe I'll do that later. Um Yeah, I mean, I can like, I can help you out with getting to play around with both bases. So just remind me, oh, actually if you wanna, let's, let's go ahead. If I want to go to, I'll show you I'll show you a real life uh Get pod thing to do. Go to um in your browser, go to github dot com slash devops, stay slash Devops, stays dash, web, dash dash, web dev ops, Devops days is the, oh, sorry. DeVos Stays is the, the org and the Repo De Stays dash Web. So you got an extra devs in there. Too much devs. OK, cool. All right. So scroll down. No, no, no scroll, scroll down into. OK. Click on open and get pod and yeah. Ok. So let's sort. So what this is gonna do? Yeah, blah, blah, blah. Um Sure give everybody access to everything. It's fine. Why not? What could go wrong as we learned last week. So what this is gonna do? And this one's gonna take a hot second because um so the Deb stays website uh runs using Hugo, which is static site general, right? Um And it takes on a container, it takes a couple of minute, a minute or two to build. So what's happening is you'll see though that it's gonna, so now it's building the container, doing all the stuff that has the version of Hugo that we support and it will start running, it will build the site and then it'll actually, you'll see in git pod, it's gonna pop a window. That's actually also the preview of the website because it's as you make changes because it's sort of running in watch mode like you could with GABY or whatever. So again, this one, this has taken a couple of minutes for a few reasons. One you don't have the container image ready and blah, blah, blah. So we can sort of let that one sit for for a second. But the, the part of the reason again, like I really like this and I'm trying to get it to work and i it's really coming down to just documentation. So for the, so the way to, to give a little background for people watching to know why this is a weird problem to have to solve. So there, as much as you might think there is one universal Deb stays organization across the whole world. There is that every local de stays in Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Amsterdam, whatever. Those are all independent groups that are loosely organized with a, a core. OK. Cool. Something's happening. Um OK. So if you, now there's give it a second because if you see how it's starting to pop some windows up here for you. Um OK, so I'm, I'm having a hard time because the, the terminal, no, no, no, the terminal is blocked by our, our, our beautiful faces. Um So you see it's doing the build. So what's gonna happen? So you see it starting, it's building sites, you see Hugo is running and when it's done, it's gonna, that's when it's gonna add a pain in your visual studio in your code. That is the preview of the site and you would actually see that if you changed the um the content, it, it will, you know, do it in real life. And so the reason, OK, so while we're thinking about the reason why this matters is so to get your de stays event on the website, you have to put in a pull request. You basically have to, you know, add some stuff into Hugo and put in a pull request. So I have an open source project for all practical purposes that has hundreds of contributors around the world who touch it once a year, maybe so. And I cannot put any kind of requirement on what it take. There it goes. So there you go. OK? So you have your terminal that's running. But then yeah, so you see the website there and if you were to go in and, and make a change, it would. So like I'll tell you a change you can do real quick. Uh Here actually Croll uh click on, it doesn't even matter to pick, pick the first Deb stage we want to do. Let's, let's just there, there's a logo. I just wanna go to Raleigh. Click on Raleigh. OK? Scroll down uh uh just a second just to see what we, we're gonna change. OK? Um Cool. OK. So now go into the content folder, not static, not sorry. There's uh the one above content. Yep. And then go to events, scroll down to 2022 dash um Raleigh. OK. Uh Go to the welcome dot MD. That's the main page. And let's see um right underneath the, I find that uh uh just, just underneath that div just, just do like the last one. Just somewhere inside the HTML. It doesn't matter. Not inside the road. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Just throw some HTML and just put a big old hh one or something that'll be easy to find. Yeah. Ok. So, yep. Save it and then go back to simple browser and there it is. Right. So this is really awesome for the people that are doing it because they have the built but they don't have to worry about. Do I have Hugo installed? Do I have whatever? And then they can just do the part they have to do? And um and there's a lot of stuff that comes up and any anyway, there's a lot of stuff with how the site gets built where people are, like, why don't you do this thing with Gope? And you could do this and you could have this awesome thing. And I'm like, because I, the only two things I can ask for contributors are they have get and they have Hugo, you know, so, so we have to do a lot of funky stuff. Um But so this is, so this is sort of like a way you can sort of be it. Like, it's like a away if you're using a static site generator. Um These are all things we would normally do, right? Like you do cut Gatsby develop. So think about if you, if you're, if Gatsby is your jam, this same thing works just as well. And we did this with uh so the Devops party games uh website that I did that I, they do way back when we used to do those more regularly that all runs in Gatsby. And we also put it all in Git pod just to make it easier to be able to say because some of this is even, even if I have all this stuff locally, sometimes I just want to crack open the browser and just do a quick change, but I want to see what it's gonna do. Um Yeah. So, oh for sure. Yeah, you can see it live, you can do the piece. So again, think about if you've taking this to a, you know, it could be more, this is just a static site generator but you know, your, your, your web app or whatever that you're working on has to build, has to do this stuff. And then this way you're like, I've got it all. So like if you go um scroll up to the top of the um the file system on the, on the explorer uh go into the um or close this up. Uh What is the file gippo dot Yaml? Sorry dot G pod dot L. It's uh it's after all the folders who, who, who, who it's in between. It's right after the get ignore the dot dot Get there. It is there. It is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. OK. So this is the things that say when you start it up, what should you do? And this is pretty easy. It just says install Hugo do this. But like if I wanted another container running, maybe I had a dependency. Maybe I have a container that runs Mango DB that my app connects to and I just need to have it ephemerally running. Um, I could define all this stuff and just for everybody that's listening, I am 99.9999% sure that code spaces works exactly like this. Yeah, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's the same idea. But this was, this was easier to illustrate. This is really the thing I love about this concept. Code space is get pod whatever is we've been trying to do this in different ways uh for a long time and this is why, you know, so it's within an organization, you know, you wanna have developers, you wanna have a clean and uh consistent uh workstation, right? Where you develop on because we know as we're messing around with stuff, we're bit in all sorts of weird versions of shit installed or whatever or you might have something set up different than me, blah, blah, blah. So like what we used to do in the early days of cloud because that's when you could do it or you might do it within your V MS, you would have like a VM, right? Whether it was an Aws or a local VM. And VM Ware or something that you would ssh into that was built according to this is our standard developer thing. And I know I could do that. Uh This is just such a brilliant like with both code spaces and get pod next evolution where it's like you have to do that and it's so everything's so fast that you could be like, let me just start it over. I could even have a, a version for this branch as I'm doing that. So um and I know people that like this lets you this lets you work with just a a tablet, right? You want to just jam with your ipad, you can do that, right? You know, you could basically working in the browser. It's, it's a, it's a crazy place we live right now. Yeah. No, it is, it is game changing I think. I mean, I want to find a video for people so I can put about code spaces. Yeah, for sure. Sharing so that I could find it but like it's pretty much set up pretty similarly. Um Yeah, if you drop that in my chat, I'll put that into um what, why you're thinking about that? I just want to know what this get emojis is. It just sounds fascinating. I'm like, I'm like, I need to know. So this was, this was the one where results like ah we might get to it. I'm like, yeah, we got, we got 89 minutes. Let's talk about it for a minute. You don't even have to show it. Just tell us about it. Oh, yeah. I mean, it was just, it was like the first project I did at Gib. Um It was just basically um leveraging github API for the emojis. And it would like, I used the open source project called Fuse Js that helped me to do fuzzy searching with it. Um And it would like pop up the, like if you started typing in the name of the Emoji, it would pop up. But I had put it in the chat because I used the Pulumi github action that allowed me to like do a live preview. That's why I put it in. Oh Right. Right. Right. I, I was gonna say this, I remember this from um Yeah, when they were trying to learn it. Right. Like when I was trying to figure out how does Pulumi work? Um And what things happen? Wait, am I still, am I still sharing? No, but I can't. Here you go. No, no, no, no, I don't want that. I want to talk. Oh OK. Sorry. I didn't know if you were. Yeah, I turned it off because you were looking for something but cool. Yeah. No, that was the one thing. Um So if you take a look in the, the chat, if you're paying attention to it, that's the link to the Pulumi program. Uh that Rozelle has that set up the stuff for, for the, the emojis. So there we go. We, we did our, we ticked our box that we talked about. Pulumi. OK, good. Now let me put, I put the Code spaces video. Well, I'm putting it in the chat right now. It talks about how to set it up, um or how to set up your environment or make code spaces work for you. But yeah, I don't know what else to talk about. We can talk about give her actions. Um My Brian has a cool action that I think is helpful for open source contributors. Oh What's it do? Um You know, when you have an open so well, when you have an issue opened and like the person wants to take it, you gotta wait for someone to assign it to you. Um If you type, you don't, I'm saying you're saying if, if you don't have the rights to assign, like if I'm just like, I'm not a maintainer of the repo, but I wanna call dibs on this act on this issue. Yeah, like you'd be like, I want this and then you gotta wait for the people who have the rights to actually assign it to you. Um He made an action that essentially like you can write in the common thought take and it'll assign it to you. Um Yeah, I, I think it's good because like it helps the maintainer so much and then I edited it a little bit because I'm a big baby. Basically. I had taken, I had taken an issue and then someone else said dot Take and I was like, uh oh, they just took my issue. I would, I was like, I was excited to do that. So I edit it so that like if someone's already assigned it, what it won't assign somebody else afterwards. But yeah, I like it up actions because it speeds up so much and not just for um like actual developers or like development things, you can do so much with it, you know. Yeah, it's not necessarily just like your C I CD. It's just like the things that like I found places where we, we have some stuff we do where like we bring in. Um it's almost like a like a, like an easy enterprise scheduler, so to speak, right? So like we have stuff that runs where we want to slurp in data from like stack overflow or uh reddit, you know, that goes into our uh tool we use called orbit. That's just sort of managing like community engagement. So we have scripts that do that and they run as github actions. Now, I will tell you a pro tip. This is a fun fact. Um If you have a github actions running on a schedule and the repo hasn't had any activity in 60 days, they stop running. So if you have a repo whose only point in life is to run to have your, basically ran your get hub actions. You need to throw a commit in there or do something like once a month. So like, yeah, we've gotten burned by that. A couple. It happens every two months because we forget about it. And also we're like, why aren't we getting any more data from reddit? And it's like, oh, because the github action was suspended because we don't touch that repo because why would we so to save their money? They're like, I mean, it makes sense because otherwise you could have this, you know, you could have someone puts a thing in there and it's an abandoned project, you know, I mean, I totally understand why it's the way that it is. It's just like, oh yeah, we should remember that. Um All right. Well, so Rozelle, like, thank you for coming and chatting and jamming. Like, uh I feel like every time I turn around on Twitter, you're doing something you're presenting somewhere, you're doing something. Is there, is there anything cool coming up? Um Are you getting to any? I, I don't wanna put you on the spot about this but like, you've, you, you, you started doing developer advocacy like in the middle of COVID. Um Are you gonna find yourself like at any conferences? Are you speaking anywhere, anything coming up? Oh, wait, yeah, I am. I'm going to be a new relics Tweeter hack thingy. Me. But that's, but I'm gonna be there in real life in Las Vegas. So, oh, so it is if I recall correctly, I think it's the same time as Cuban. Eu I think so. Maybe, I don't know. Um iii I think some people from Pulumi are gonna be, I just remember seeing that coming up and I looked at the dates. I'm like, oh well, Brazil, I would love to come and like see you give a talk and stuff, but I am gonna unfortunately have to be in Valencia, Spain at that time. So uh that's no fear. Oh my God. Yeah. Poor thing. Yeah, that's no fear but Spain. OK. Well, I got to find myself at a conference that's in real life. I mean, like in a different country. Yeah. Yeah, we'll get you there, we'll get you there. Yeah. So, yeah. Well, II I will also just say, and this is for anybody you've got a couple of days um because I would be, I would be remiss if I didn't use my employer's uh reach to promote my own thing. So Devo says Chicago, which is a real life in person conference that will be taking place in September. Uh because we rescheduled, it was originally gonna be in May. We just had to change the date for a couple of reasons. The CFP is open for another couple days. So it closes on March 31st. So anybody who you know is into that thing if you go to de stays dot org slash Chicago, you know, uh I may or may not, uh be the chair of the content Committee. I'm not saying anything but uh, awesome. Yeah. Very excited. We got, we've got a lot of great submissions, but even if you don't, I'm gonna tell you, you know, I think Devo State Chicago is the second best. Devo stays in the US. The best one is Minneapolis. I'll just say it. It's fine, even though it's not mine. Deb State Minneapolis is amazing. Dev State Chicago is also amazing but cool. Uh result. Awesome. This was super fun. We're gonna have to do more stuff like this. And um thanks for joining us, everybody who's tuned in uh whatever platform you're watching us on. If you're on youtube, make sure you push the subscribe button if you're watching us on Twitch, smash that follow button. Uh We have another stream coming up on Thursday. I've got Alison Downy and we are going to be exploring Q Laing and neither of us have any idea what it's about at all. That is our intent. Uh It's apparently the new hotness and we are gonna just stumble our way through it. Uh That'll be at the same time, but on Tuesday and then next Tuesday a week from now, same time, uh Paris Pittman, who's uh one of the uh the Kubernetes uh steering committee. Uh She's gonna be joining me and we're actually gonna be talking about uh coupon and only a little bit about the beach, mostly about the content, but maybe a little bit about the beach. So uh follow us and we'll see you and uh roll. Thanks again. Thanks for having me. We will see you all on the internet.

---
