---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Live With Luke Hoban: See Pulumi In Action And Ask Questions"
title: "Live With Luke Hoban: See Pulumi In Action And Ask..."
meta_desc: |
    Luke Hoban, CTO of Pulumi, hosted the Livestream on Pulumi Insights, featuring a Pulumi AI and Resource Search demo with an interactive Q&A session...
url_slug: live-luke-hoban-see-pulumi-action-ask-questions
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Live With Luke Hoban: See Pulumi In Action And Ask Questions"
  description: |
    Luke Hoban, CTO of Pulumi, hosted the Livestream on Pulumi Insights, featuring a Pulumi AI and Resource Search demo with an interactive Q&A session.  
  sortable_date: 2023-06-09T05:49:48Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/jXyBJcUUUQg
transcript: |
    The focus on doing here at Pulumi. Uh So for folks who who aren't aware, um you know, Pulumi is a infrastructures code tool uh that uses existing real programming languages like typescript and Python and go and dot net uh to manage infrastructure at scale. Uh And recently, we've done a number of uh interesting kind of launches. Uh And so I was going to highlight a few of the things that came with our Pulumi Insights launch. Uh And then maybe just demo a few things, answer any questions we have here. Um Probably go, you know, 30 45 minutes depending on uh how many questions and things there are that folks want to take a look at. Um So feel free to jump in. Uh Let us know if there's anything you want to cover here. Uh And uh while we wait for some questions, I'll go ahead and just get started. So let me uh let me share my screen and we'll maybe start by kind of looking at uh the blog post that we did just a few weeks ago. So, uh so here was the book on Ploy Insights. Um Ploy Insights is a set of new features. We've kind of launched into the Pluming platform uh that help you to sort of gain more insight over the infrastructure you're managing with Pulumi. And so, you know, with, uh with Pulumi, you can do, you know search uh and you can do analytics and you can do intelligence now over uh all the infrastructure you're managing. And so because Polu is sort of this platform where you use Plume's infrastructures code tools to author infrastructure and write the code that is going to generate all the infrastructure you have. Uh that means that you kind of have a lot of information about the infrastructure you're working with in uh in the cloud inside POLO and that's across multiple different cloud providers. It's potentially doing work in Aws and Azure and GCP or maybe it's even just clouds and others a providers like, you know, we use github a lot at Polo and so we have resources we manage inside a inside github, inside a wide variety of other kind of third party SAS providers and the ability to sort of understand all of that infrastructure, gain insights on that and learn better about how to use that. Uh is really what we're trying to go for with um pulling the insights. So uh there's a couple of sort of capabilities that are part of this, you know, search is really the ability to go search over all that information, find the needle in the haystack, understand kind of what uh resources you have and, and ask questions about those um analytics is the ability to sort of go get deeper insights against some of that infrastructure. And then intelligence is some A I based tools to help you learn and understand and iterate more quickly uh on ideas for new uh cloud capabilities. So let's go a little bit deeper into some of these. Um So, you know, one of the things I think we're, we're definitely excited about, you know, like, like everyone else sort of right now. Um We're very excited about kind of the capabilities that we can bring with, with sort of generative A I tools. And so uh Pulumi A I is sort of, you know, kind of the first major place where we're bringing sort of generative A I experiences into infrastructures code and into Pulumi specifically. And uh what we introduced was ploy dot com slash A I uh which is a tool for kind of asking a question like, you know, hey, I want to create a cloud for CD N from my S3 website uh and getting back an answer where we get a complete piece of code in Pulumi that we can kind of go use and turn into uh some infrastructure as code. And so maybe, um you know, since we're, we're here on the live stream, I'll take the opportunity to kind of go demo this a little bit and we'll just play around with Pulumi A, I see a bit of the, some of the things it can do, see some of the interesting kind of limitations and sort of how you can use those limitations as ways to sort of come up with creative new solutions to problems as well. So, uh here we are in uh blue dot com slash A I and uh you can see we have a few things we can do. Uh We kind of get the prompt and it's just sort of what cloud infrastructure would you like to build. Uh And so we can kind of come up with any question we might have about something we want to build in the cloud. Um And one of the great things about using large language models uh and generative A I is they can be very creative and so we can ask these questions in very indirect ways or with a lot of ambiguity in them and the tools are going to be able to sort of uh come up with interesting answers uh to their creative ways to solve for that problem. And if we don't like those answers, we can give them more feedback and tell them to iterate on that problem. Uh There's a couple of interesting things we could do here. So like, you know, the, the prompt it had was a static website on A BS behind the CD M. I'll just go with a simple version of that say a static website or any of that, we also notice that I picked typescript here. Um So I asked for it to generate the code in typescript, but I could have asked for other languages uh here as well. Now, one of the things to note is, you know, this uh is coming back and it's, it's not super fast. Um you know, as with many of the sort of more advanced large language models, um you know, there is some compute cost here. And so we're kind of running this today on GP T four by default, which has really good abilities to write code. Um But it does mean that the, you know, the time it takes to kind of get back or reply is a little slower. Um Of course, it's still about as fast as you would be kind of typing this out yourself or maybe even faster than that. And so still definitely a net win. Um But something where kind of we're looking to um continue to see improvements on this or do some improvements behind the scenes ourselves. Well, we'll just wait for this one to finish and then going forward. I have a couple of pre canned examples. We can just pull up to go look at as well. You can see it gives us a short description of kind of what it's going to do uh to solve for this problem. And one of the things that, you know, you, you may be familiar with if you've seen any of these other kind of A I based tools as well is uh in general, these solutions built on top of kind of generative A I. Uh they do a better job of answering the question if they kind of can have some time to think first. And so the first few, you know, first paragraph here is laying out kind of a little bit of a thoughts on how to solve this, what resource to go use uh to solve this. And now they can go kind of use that and come up with some code that influenced this uh really effectively. Now, the interesting thing to note here is uh in this example, we actually didn't just go ahead and use, you know, if you had thought, how do I go to set a website on a A BS? You might have thought, oh, I'm gonna create an S3 bucket. I'm gonna set some things to make it public. I'm gonna maybe put a CD N in front of it. I'm going to um you know, uh put on my bucket objects and either, you know, put those in using IC or run some scripts to go copy them in from a local folder. Uh You can imagine how you might solve for this problem. Uh One of the interesting things is that uh Pulumi A I kind of again thought to not just solve it in that really kind of direct way but to solve it, using a higher level component that it knows exists in the plume registry, which is this a a static website component that's a component which gives us a really simple high level interface to solve for this problem where you just tell it what path do do I want to see the end? Do I want logs um much higher level than building all these pieces yourself manually? And this really highlights, you know, a couple of benefits, one that, you know, with Pulumi uh you know registry, we have a component model. And so with Pulumi generally, you don't just have to use those low level building blocks like you might in cloud formation or as a resource manager, you can also use higher level components, either components that you write yourself to abstract away uh things for what your company is doing. Uh or in this case, something that's been published into uh the Pulumi registry. Uh In this case, is this a static website component? Let me just actually go over and, and show that uh for a second. So, you know, inside the plum red, we see we have, you know, 100 and 37 packages available here. Uh And it's been like Aws Azure, Google Cloud is the big ones plus lots of longer tail ones, you know, a a Alibaba, you know, so many others. The center is there a couple of different categories Um So there's sort of providers uh so native providers and providers. So this, this 117 of them are raw capabilities available for some cloud platform, the low level building blocks of exposing that entire platform into Pulumi and even just of these, there's tens of thousands uh of, of, of resources available across all the different cloud providers. Uh And I think over a million properties that you can configure against these providers. But there's also another category here, which is components and these are sort of higher level libraries that take common patterns and make them easier to accomplish uh with polling. And these are things you can just consume from code. Uh So, you know, uh um you know, if you want to write these, you consume these in typescript or in Python or in go or dot net, you can kind of use these from any code that you might write as, as you would any other class or component within your program language. Um But you can see uh these are all the kind of things we have currently uh in this static website. Uh forget where the ad BS one was but uh database website here it is. So this is that component that we uh we saw being used in that plume I example. So we can come in here, we can see, you know, the um all the resources on this, the U CD N should be in here somewhere. Um these are all the, yeah, with CD N with logs, these are the properties it was using in that example. Now, the thing to really note um is that in, in here, the reason why it was able to get this right and know that this uh component was gonna be part of the solution is because Pulumi A I is sort of fundamentally connected up to the registry. So as well as being built on top of uh GP T four API S, it's also built on top of the Pulumi registry. And so it will go out um check for whether it thinks this any uh resources in the registry that will help to solve for the question that you had originally. And then it will give that as context into uh the generative A I along with your query and along with some guidance around how to solve your problem in a way that's gonna really help you uh get to a complete and working example and we tune that all so that it will have up to date access to exactly the latest things that are available inside the registry so they can write correct code and to use the best resources for this problem. Um And so, you know, a number of folks have asked, hey, how is this different than, than chat GP T for example? And uh while chat GP T can do a pretty good job writing code and even writing Pulumi code. Uh It doesn't have that connection to the registry, so it often will use very old versions of API S or not know about recent versions or make or hallucinate the API shapes. Uh generally make quite a few mistakes in terms of how it, you know, constructs the, the programs. Uh We can help it to do a much, much better job um by integrating it with the registry like we've done with Pulumi A I, I see there's one question uh that came in, I'll just uh kind of answer that while we're in the flow here. So, you know this question from Josh about, you know, can Pulumi and I uh help to write new providers. Uh So, you know, that's a great question. There's sort of two sides to that one. You know, when I was over on the registry, I kind of mentioned there was two different types of uh providers. We have available this sort of uh provider packages and component packages and for provider packages, those are written uh in a very different way than a normal polluting program. Those are written as just an implementation of create, read update and lead operations for a given resource. And today, Pulumi A I is not, you know, the designed to kind of help with that problem, maybe something we tackle in the future to kind of help it to identify that need and, and help to solve for that as well. But generally, that problem is more about just mapping your um your cloud provider into uh Pulumi resource model. And it's a very different kind of challenge for those component packages though, for building something like this, a DB, a static website component. Uh in many ways, this is exactly how you do it. It's just kind of ask, you know, how do you solve this problem? It will give you back some code and then you can just put it within a component resource. Uh And so that sort of thing, how do I solve this problem? How do I put that in the component? Um is definitely something that plume I can do. Maybe actually when we look at them, one of the next examples, uh I'll see if we can kind of go and play with this and see if we can it in that direction. Um Yeah. So this is, this is actually an interesting example um here that I pulled up earlier and, and one of the things to note actually, um by the way is we have this ability to share a conversation. And so if you've come up with an interesting result, you can just, you know, copy the link, come over here, paste it. Uh And that whole uh conversation is here. So anyone who you share that link with can uh can go see the conversation you had. That means you can kind of if you come up with an interesting example you can record it for your own purposes, you can send it to your teammates. Um You can kind of share these things around. So I think that's a really helpful way to be able to reuse uh some of the as well. But this was an interesting example where I kind of asked it a couple of questions. So one was create an A S S3 bucket resource. Of course, it just comes up with this very simple thing uh here. But then if I want to say something like, you know, hey, now show me how to do that in Azure. And this is sort of that lateral creative thinking. It may not be obvious exactly what that question means. You know, there isn't an native S dot s3 dot bucket resource in Azure, right? Um That's a, that's an a specific thing. Um But it comes up with say what would be the closest equivalent to that concept within Azure? And then how do I use that in the Azure API S? It even knows, you know, we, we um if you go back over to the registry, uh you know, we have a Azure native as the default provider for um for Azure, whereas a Ds classic is default provider for aws in our platform. And uh you know, so if I look at this, it knows to kind of go use Azure native, uh knows to go create a storage account, uh knows the API S, and then I need to kind of pass a SKU here, um, which is a sort of a concept that didn't exist inside Aws. And so it kind of knows how to be, be creative about solving for that problem. Um, but let's actually try an interesting thing here and see. Um, no, I come back to the, this one. What was it? Let me see if I can find that one again. Uh. Mhm. Because one thing I wanted, yeah, I know that's not the same example. Yeah, but I'll go, I'll go play around that with a different example in a second. But, uh I just let this go while I'm running in with it. Um, cool. I'll just mentioned a couple of things while we're here. You know, we can also do the same thing kind of within that set of website example. We can do the same thing within uh other languages as well. So, you know, here is one where I get it for, for go instead and it came up with sort of a way to solve for that problem. But using go and so the ability to write code in, in any of these languages because, uh, you know, the, the large language models are trained on enormous amount of typescript and Python and go and, and, and C# and java code even outside of using those languages for, you know, infrastructures code, use cases. They just have seen, you know, enormous amounts of those code because they're the most popular languages in the world. These tools are extremely good at writing code. That's correct in these languages. Whereas for, for DS LS or other, you know, YAML formats, they've seen an order of magnitude or two or three orders of magnitude less code. And so they're less good at being creative in those systems uh and correct than they are uh within these languages. And so in some ways, you know, these tools are actually better at writing uh cloud infrastructure using these languages and, and because they're so trained so well uh on code in these languages. Um Now, I know there's another question here about, you know, can ploy I service be ported to air gapped environments. Uh And so, you know, that that's a great question. So today, uh you know, what we're offering here is just a free service plumy dot com slash A I. Um So anyone can come up and use this. Um But it is just something that we're running as a service um kind of in, in the pluming website. Uh Some of the key technologies is part of this is also available um in a no jazz project. Um But that thing is not using some of the latest uh abilities to sort of reach into the registry and those sorts of pieces that require it to be connected into uh into Pulumi service itself. Uh We do hope to kind of make this available as a capability that can run uh within the Pulumi service as well so that anyone kind of using Pulumi cloud. Uh So for folks who aren't aware, um kind of has a, a product offering Pulumi cloud here uh that offers of a, a broad view over all your infrastructure's code that you're managing with Pulumi. And you are expecting to kind of integrate some of this experience into a Pulumi cloud so that you can use it uh along with your infrastructure. So if you have your own components that are part of your private uh you know, uh infrastructure that you manage internally at your company, uh you can use those and have the A I get trained on those and be able to kind of go see how to use those as part of the solution instead of just using the things that are in our public registry. So a lot of things I think we, we're looking to integrate into uh into this. And then we do have a, a version of this uh Pulumi cloud offering that you can run self hosted and run even in the air gapped environment. Um You would technically be able to do that except you would need to be able to plug in kind of a large language model. And today we, we work with GP T four, which of course is only available in a hosted form. Um But in principle, in the future we may be able to kind of do that with a, a model that we're running locally inside uh inside the service itself. So the air gap is not really, for a few reasons, it's not really something you can do today with this service. Um But directionally in the future, uh something that we're, we're definitely looking towards. OK. Um Let me bring up a couple other uh examples here. So, you know, this one is, is a meaningfully more uh kind of complex example in a sense of, you know, I asked it to run Medibase on S uh with a managed post grass database. And so, you know, here it came up with, I did it in Python in this case, uh I came up with this, you know, uh pretty long example here it uses, you know, about a dozen different services inside Aws uh figures out how to kind of map them all together in interesting ways, make sure to, you know, expose it publicly to the internet, um connect it up to those uh those end points. But it also interestingly and this is the sort of thing that, you know, um you, you wouldn't find typically in sort of an example that you just found on online. It knows because of meta base me mentioning meta base, it knows some specific things about that, like it knows it's running on port 3000 by default. Uh It, it probably gets some things about the CPU and memory kind of based on that thing, it knows all the environment variables that meta base needs me to pass and how to hook those up to sort of match the infrastructure of this building. So able to be very creative about how to kind of solve this end to end problem uh in a way that makes sense. So it gives me this, you know, fairly significant piece of code here uh as well. So, um one of the things we could do, if we have some time, I'll answer a couple of questions first, but then maybe I'll try to, you know, taking this code over and seeing if we can play around with it uh inside our ID. Um But there's a couple of other questions here. Uh One was, you know, what is the current most popular language within the Pulumi ecosystem? Uh I am planning on debating uh between using typescript and Python. Well, I'll say that, you know, the typescript and Python are both uh very popular today. Uh I think, you know, typescript is the first language that we supported uh back when we first started. And I think in part because of that, it's, you know, it's, it's, I think it's been the, the highest use since then, but Python has grown very fast and I think it's probably the fastest growing still uh in terms of languages. And I think over time, we're likely to see that you know, kind of uh that end typescript, both end up being very popular, uh go, you know, is, is popular and more so with sort of uh teams that are building, you know, for building components in a sense. And, and there reusable pieces of infrastructure where the the end consumers of that within the company are type script of Python users, but they're able to build reusable compon and it's uh in go and just go gives them some additional tools to just make sure that those components are really uh robust to make sure they have a very simple binary for, for um distribution and things. Um And then C# of course, there's just, you know, there's a, there's a uh a community of folks who really want to use C# are using full stack uh kind of C# applications and, you know, C# fits really well into the organization. Um So I'd say, you know, we, we support all these languages. Uh We, we try to make sure that, you know, the vast majority of features available across all of these in a consistent way. Um But types here in Python probably are definitely the two highest and probably if those typescript has the, the, you know, the, the the largest kind of set of, of support but um but both are, are very heavily supported. Yeah. And, and Kevin mentions kind of uh using both and I think we, we do see a lot of that one of the interesting things is we, I, you know, I was commenting, some folks recently we've seen actually a whole bunch of um uh companies sort of in the A I and, and A I tooling spaces and building the infrastructure projects around A I uh who have been picking up Pulumi recently and, and using it, and we've seen of that cohort uh definitely some bias towards Python from, from those users. Um because they're, you know, that, that, that ecosystem tends to be a bit more Python focused. Uh And so, because they're Python focused from an application development perspective, uh they bring that over into their infrastructure as well. And so we're definitely seeing kind of some upticks around that ecosystem, whereas maybe for some of the more cloud native customers who we've had, um you know, they're leading a bit more go and, you know, uh the more sort of enterprise customers leading C# so kind of some of the things you might expect. Um But really the overarching thing being folks picking a language that their organization, uh you know, already uses has tools, has practices built up around and now they get to benefit from all of those practices and tools for their cloud infrastructure as well as their application development. Uh There was also a question about uh any plans to interact um uh integrate more platform support for Oracle cloud. I actually curious kind of what, what the sort of question uh there specifically is because we, we obviously do have an Oracle cloud provider. So if I come over to the register again, we just leave this open. Uh you know, it can come over to Oracle. Um We do have an Oracle cloud infrastructure provider. It has, you know, you know, as you can see here, quite a lot of resources and, and each one of these is a module, each one of these has a half dozen resources. So I have a very large provider for the Oracle platform. Um It's not as heavily used as it probably isn't surprised as, as A and Azure. Um but we do have a number of users using this kind of introduction and uh and benefiting a lot from having access to this from Pulumi. So, uh definitely, you know, for Oracle cloud folks, we we encourage them to, to use Pulumi. Um But if there's any specific things that are missing, definitely interested in, in feedback on that. Um There's another um another question along the same lines about, you know, uh based on customer usage, which major cloud providers are you being uh used on? And yeah, I think, you know, Pulumi is used really across the board. I mean, one of the things that, you know, we we love is being very horizontal platform that can support any cloud uh projects that you have and whether that's, you know, uh we have a number of customers who actually work with multiple clouds at once. Um you know, kind of mentioned some you know uh platform tools in the A I space and the in the data space. And many of them are offering solutions where you can run, you know, as a user of their platform, you can go run that in your, you know, in the cloud environment. So you, you can run it close to your own infrastructure. And so they actually let you go spin up uh your own environment in GCP or in Azure or native US uh or even an Oracle cloud. And because of that, they need to be able to manage infrastructure across all those different clouds in a very consistent way. And, and we see that pattern as something where people are picking up Pulumi and using it very heavily when they have a sort of fundamentally multi cloud use case. But uh but we see kind of a, a wide breadth um very long tail of provider usage as well. Um But, you know, probably no surprise our, our usage probably uh matches what you'd see in terms of just overall cloud adoption surveys and things. Um A s is still, you know, I think the the most heavily used but, but Azure Google Cloud, a lot of Cober netti um all of these are platforms that are being used heavily with. All right. Well, since we have the ability to kind of do some demos here, why don't I, uh, just come in, uh, we'll grab this code and we'll just sort of play around with it inside, um, inside an ID here. So let me just come over, um, just make a directory for, uh, a meta base. Uh, and let me just go run Pulumi new to create a new project here. So this is gonna be, you know, we're running this in Aws and running this in Python. So let me just pick up the Aws Python. I think I'll just create a new empty project here and we'll run it a little closer to me. Go ahead and create the environment for us. Take a couple of seconds to install all the dependencies. There we go. Now, let's uh just open up uh re and we'll just play around a little bit. So we see that we, you know, got here um just open up a terminal as well. Uh We see here, we got a simple Python project that got created when we did that, Pulumi New bump up the font a little bit. Uh And, you know, it's just a normal Python project. You know, we got the requirements dot TXT. Uh We've got our main dot pi, we've even got our virtual environment that we set up automatically and the default code I got was just this. But let's take uh that code that we saw on screen here and just bring it over and see, see kind of what happens here. Um So we do see that there's a couple of interesting uh errors. And so, you know, you, you will see that uh periodically um the plume A I tool does make some mistakes. Uh It's an interesting mistake here where it just sort of missed uh a uh miss the equals and, and quote character there. But then, you know, a couple of other mistakes it made. So this key uh key value pair ags if you don't know what this is supposed to be. Um See what meta base N says. Uh So it made, made some interesting kind of challenges there. But you know, one of the things I, I'll kind of come and just find one of the, maybe the mistakes it made. Um Here, let's go see. So Medibase end is used. Uh I think we don't even have to do this at all, do we? Um I think I thought we had to kind of put this into a um It's actually an interesting question. I don't know what the, the type of this thing needs to be. Um So we're passing it to container definitions. So let's go find container definitions here. Yeah. So it looks like, you know what human definitions actually want is this? Why don't we go to see what happens though? Uh We'll look at the problems here. Uh I don't know if it'll be able to answer this. Well, here's one that maybe is actually interesting. So he says, cannot access the member endpoint port from type instance. And so why don't I just copy this? I'm back over here and I'll say that gave me an error and he fixed it. Got that. OK. So I pass space set in hit enter. Uh We'll see that. Now it'll try to answer kind of these questions as a follow up. So it has all the context about what this program was and what it generated last time. Um But now it'll think about how does this solve that problem for us. And so here you'll see it's kind of working on that and it says based on the error, it seems the import port is unknown member instead, you should use the port property. This interesting thing where I was able to fix that problem. Uh Even though it made the mistake initially, once it sort of focused in on that uh on that problem that we had and on that particular type, now it can actually go use the plume register to look up that specific resource property and use that to go understand how to fix the problem. Uh And so even though it won't always, and you know, it even left a comment here to help me uh get that right. Um But even though it won't always get everything 100% right, it, you can actually use it as a tool to uh iterate on these things. And, you know, is it also sort of new to not go regurgitate the entire rest of this. Um just kind of rega us the, the snippet that it's gonna need to replace this with. So um really, really sort of creative and, and helpful way to do that and you can kind of iterate with these other problems if you, if the code it generates uh doesn't do exactly what you want. OK. So that was a few examples um of flume A I and if there's any other kind of questions or, or things people would like to try out uh feel free to, to send them over, but also feel free to just try out flume uh A I at fluy dot com slash A I as well. I did wanna touch on a few of the other uh capabilities that were part of uh part of the insights launch. Uh So one which, you know, I want want demo live here because it takes a little bit longer to kind of run through this bit. Um I'll just show this video and, and kind of talk to what's happening here for a second. We also with Pulumi, I launched a cli tool. Um you know, can run NPX, Pulumi dash A I to run this tool. Uh You need to have Pulumi installed and you do, you do need a uh opening I token locally to use the GP T API S, but you'll see that kind of what it lets you do is uh just kind of write uh things that you would like to do. So, for example, you know, the first uh if I go back to the beginning of this thing, let's just wait for it to, to go back to the beginning. If I go back to the beginning, you see it's, I just will say I want an S3 bucket and it doesn't just give me the code, it goes and actually creates that. And so you see in the output, it just said creating, created and then it gives me the output. And this is a way to think about how we can potentially start using these A I tools. Not just to give us code that we can paste back into our applications, but to actually iterate on infrastructure along with the A I system. So the, the A I system in this case has access to some A DS credentials is able to go to ploy on my behalf into a sandbox environment. Um and be able to go create infrastructure based on the requests I have and iterate on that infrastructure, build up a real piece of software running on the internet that has a public uh publicly addressable IP. So really sort of interesting beginnings of ideas for how we go kind of leverage these tools in this case, leveraging Polu automation API to allow us to uh create infrastructure using uh A I but then kind of shifting gears um you know, I mentioned at the beginning uh the search capabilities and, and this is the capabilities is, you know, I think really exciting is the ability to kind of go search across all the infrastructure you're managing and find things that are potentially interesting for you. And so let me um just jump over into app dot dot com uh and show off a little bit about how search works in practice. Uh And this will be a little bit behind the scenes, you know, II I have my, uh my own sort of personal org and this little demo org for upstarts. But, you know, they don't have a ton of resources in them. These are just things I use for demos and so they don't have the, the thousands of resources that make sort of search really exciting uh for, you know, larger scale users. And so I'm gonna show this actually in our Pulumi org. Um you know, probably not surprising that we use Pulumi heavily at uh Pulumi. And so, for example, you know, Pulumi service testing, this is actually the, um you know, app dot Pulumi dot com testing environment itself um which is being managed with Pulumi. Uh but you can see a number of other things uh that we're, we're kind of uh actively working on all of these are in the last 30 minutes updates that we've done inside Pulumi against our infrastructure. Um But, you know, we can also come over here and, and to search across uh different things that we're managing. And so, you know, first thing you notice in search is I immediately get back, you know, uh overview of all the resources that I'm managing. So we have 46,000, 45,500 or so resources in uh the various cloud providers that we're managing kind of at in this organization. But then I can also with this advanced filter and come in and see a bunch of interesting aggregates over my data. And so this kind of tells you, you know, what types of resources, what projects, uh what teams, what packages. So what are the other from cloud providers? And if I want to go even further, I can save you more and see kind of a, a much more detailed link to this list of this. So for packages, we can see, obviously we're using Aws pretty heavily. We're also using github, uh aws X Snowflake, um you know, our own Pulumi service, we're coordinating that. Uh we have a provider for managing pluming cloud itself. Uh and, and a bunch more so, you know, kind of a uh a long tail here. But this is pretty common for, for a lot of our customers. They're using quite a few of the packages in, in a number of different interesting forms and we can come in here and sort of look well, what are we doing with, for example, Right. And so, you know, here's all the usages. Um I'll just put these filters. I want it too, wanted to actually go in there. So if I come down, I can see, you know, these are all the resources that we're managing in uh with Docker. And I can actually come in and go look at one of these uh and find out some information about it. So for example, I could come over here, click on this and I get all the details of this resource itself. So I get the logs from the last build of this. Uh I get, you know, all the properties on the resource like where, where it's being stored in in ecr uh the darker father was used to build it kind of all this additional information. So I can go kind of get information, find things that I care about, answer questions about my infrastructure uh in a really natural and simple way, you know, we can also uh dive in on a bunch of other uh dimensions as well. So if I clear those filters again and come back, you know, I can find out what are all the things I have in my staging environment. What are all the things I've been testing, you know how the fact that staging is so much smaller than production. Um Like maybe I, I uh focus this down just on our Pulumi service and I can see the relative size of each of these environments. Uh So it's interesting one of our developers Casey looks like, you know, her depth stack is particularly large. I might be curious kind of, hey, is there a cost implication to that? What is the sort of thing that she's doing that um is, is new there and could kind of go look into that? Uh From here, we can also see this sort of uh resources that we're working with um on this. Now, you get access to a whole bunch of information, both the sort of high level information about the projects and stacks and types and modules, that sort of thing, but then also sort of a ton of additional metadata. So for example, uh you know, we can clear this out and uh do something like go look at the um protected uh filter on that I can just uh filter on protected call and true. And we see that there's 539 resources that we have that are protected. And these are gonna be things that, you know, really, we can't, we have to make sure not to, not to destroy like our cloud distributions, our records, our buckets, probably some databases will be in here. Uh And so these are all resources that you are using Pulumi um protected feature which allows you to mark a resource as something that cannot be destroyed unless you explicitly uh unmoved the protected bit first and then run it. Destroy and so it's just a protection measure to make sure that you can't accidentally uh destroy these using poly. You have to do it very intentionally. It's sort of a multi step process. And so we might have an audit we want to do of, hey, are all of our database, um databases protected. We could easily use this to kind of go through that sort of analysis. So quite a lot of things that we can do here. Um There's also another fun feature that kind of takes this A I piece further. So we can go in the A I assist here and say, you know, give me all my um buckets across all cloud and I could type this in natural language because we're sort of using the A I assist. And uh when we do the search, it'll turn it into a query in kind of the Pulumi search syntax um that, you know, probably would have taken me a little while to figure out and type in. Um But it comes up with a really creative answer to this question, right? It it guesses that, that means Aws Azure and Google cloud. Uh and it comes up with the type names for each of those. So it knows that the type name for that is a S S3 bucket in uh in A S it's Google storage bucket in a Google cloud and it's Azure storage storage account in uh in Azure. So kind of that build to connect into these data sources, understand the schema and, and come up with a query that uh gives me the resources I need. And of course, it does that even, even though we only use, um you know, we don't use the storage bucket storage accounts, uh ourselves, it's able to come up with that as well. Ok. Um I see there's a couple of questions. So let me kind of go back and, and answer a few of those and if there's any more coming in on, on questions, let me know and I'm happy to answer those as well. So next one was, what's the best way to ask for features for the Pulumi A I cli tool? Uh So I'd say for this, you know, you can, that, that repo is open source. So uh for the cli tool, you can come over here to Pulumi A I uh I think I have that open. Yeah. Uh So this is that, that tool that, you know, same, same screenshot uh gift here that we're just looking at in the blog post. Uh This one is a bit more experimental as we note here. Uh And probably something that we're gonna to iterate on in meaningful ways, but you can jump in here, use this uh open up issues uh submit for requests. Uh Definitely happy to have folks iterate and, and start using this and playing around with it. Um So, yeah, no check check that out for sure. And then, you know, will the Pulumi cli be written in other languages? Uh No, we have no, no intention of kind of uh writing this in multiple languages really. For this tool, the the language is written is mostly um is mostly not, you know, kind of something that you should have to worry about per se. It's mostly just a cli tool. Uh Most likely over time, we'll kind of integrate this into the Pulumi cli or other experiences directly. Um And so we might rewrite it and go just as part of uh part of being part of the Pulumi uh cli it's ultimately uh you know, not a, not a terribly complex uh tool. And then I think it'll eventually integrate more into the backend service that we're running with Pulumi A I. Um it's more kind of a thought experiment to play around with some of these integration ideas. What, what happens if you combine automation api with uh these A I tools. And so something that we're gonna take these ideas, continue on them and probably integrate them into other experiences. But um but today, we're not gonna go just rewrite this tool as is um into, into any other languages. Cool. All right. Um Well, then, kind of the last thing from the blog post that's worth, you know, and I, you know, it's a bunch of interesting examples of more complex queries uh that I didn't even get to actually this one's worth showing because I think it's sort of interesting. Um I guess we, you know, this was an example, Curry, but not one that we uh we ourselves use. Um But you know, this, this is an example where we're kind of using more advanced queries where we can say modified after you know, this date. And so, you know, you can do uh the queries syntax here and we have a, a link over to um this documentation that tells you how to use this. But this query syntax is, is quite advanced like you do with some really interesting uh queries of your resources. And so even things like finding recently modified things, finding things that have been not modified recently that you might wanna go make sure are still up to date uh that sort of thing. So, so quite a lot of uh queries you can ask for, we showed off some of the A I assist for search, which I think is really exciting. And just because, you know, the, the some of the most interesting queries you can ask uh the, the syntax for writing those is, is a little bit something you gonna have to go learn. One of the best ways to learn is just ask the question in natural language and have, you know, have it come back and tell you uh how to do that using the search in tax, you know, one of the questions. We, we got all the time when we sort of started uh working with some customers on uh on resource search was, hey, it's great. I can do this over my existing uh Pulumi resources, the things I've managed with Pulumi with infrastructures code in Pulumi. But what about all my other infrastructure that I maybe point and clicked two years ago and now it's running and I need it and it's really important but it's not gonna be in Pulumi. Uh in the near term. Can I use, can I use research, search over that as well? And we actually do have a uh a preview thing. You can join a waitlist to gain access to this, but a cloud import uh feature here, which will allow you to provide some sort of access credentials for us to reach out into uh your uh cloud provider or your cloud provider account and then have this sort of pull in virtual resources which are uh a resource in Pulumi, but that isn't managed with Pulumi. And so you can use that virtual resource to get all the benefits of search, to get all the understanding of what you're managing across all your clouds. But um but not have to actually have a Pulumi program that defines that infrastructure. And so definitely a useful thing we support kind of and a with this today. Um This is actually built on top of our uh plume deployments uh capability, which is our ability to run infrastructure projects uh on your behalf. Uh And with cloud import, we're actually using that behind the scenes to uh run a little project which doesn't import and imports all your resources in uh as part of that job. So um some really interesting pieces there that we can go into more for folks are interested. And then the last piece uh I'd say is kind of this uh analytics piece. And you know, again, when we kind of talk to people about search, I think a lot of people say, hey, this search experience is amazing. But what I really want is to get access to all that data so that I can then go kind of combine it with the other sources of data. I have that give me a really interesting way to gain deeper insights into my infrastructure because I can combine it with departmental data or cost data or whatever else it is that I have in my data warehouse, for example. Uh And so so many different questions, we heard a bunch of these from kind of customers who we talked to and, and you can see here, you know, kind of uh some of the examples. This is just an example dashboard. Uh the phone on this is a little bit slow. Let me see if I can, it's a little bit better. Um This is the dashboard that you we built, you know, this was in meta base. Um But uh it, it's using a bunch of data that we were kind of put in snowflake, including all the resource data from resource search. And so, for example, if I come back in to here, uh maybe clear the search off. Uh You'll see that I have the ability to download CS V so I can download a CS V of all these 46,000 resources or we have an API that you can integrate with to pull that data out kind of on a Cron job or send it to wherever you want to kind of integrate it with your other uh solutions. But we then, you know, had a tool that builds and pushes that kind of into snowflakes so that we can write some interesting queries and you know, things like counter resources by type. You know, we do either that query about how many resources are protected, but I can put that on a dashboard widget. Um all of these things like this and, and one of the notable things is this is not now inside the Pulumi Cloud offering, this is just something I've put inside my own, you know, my own dashboard tools that I might use inside my organization. Um uh We do over time kind of imagine that we'll probably go take some of these experiences and embed them directly in the Pulumi Cloud giving you the ability to do some analytics over that as well. Cool. Well, I that's sort of a, a kind of conclusion of, of the core features of uh of Pulumi insights. Um But certainly happy to go kind of talk about any other um pieces of Pulumi if folks are interested. Um The one thing I will kind of plug here is we um we do have a Pulumi Up conference next week. So for folks who want to learn about a whole bunch of additional new things that we're gonna be launching. Uh kind of uh throughout the week next week and talking about in depth that Pulumi up definitely encourage you to come join us uh at the Pull Me Up conference on Thursday next week. Um You can register right here. Uh And uh we're gonna have a whole bunch of additional cool demos and new features and, and talking about some of the other things going on at Pulumi. So uh definitely come join us. Uh That's it for me. Uh If, if there's any last questions, I'll, I'll answer them, but otherwise, uh I'll say thank you all very much for joining us and uh join us next time at blu me up, see you all later.

---
