---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Choosing an Infrastructure as Code Solution in 2022 | PulumiVision"
title: "Choosing an Infrastructure as Code Solution in 2022 |..."
meta_desc: |
    Choosing a tool or suite of tools has gotten harder as more tools and CI/CD like providers have entered the space. You can now mix and match env0, ...
url_slug: choosing-infrastructure-as-code-solution-2022-pulumivision
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Choosing an Infrastructure as Code Solution in 2022 | PulumiVision"
  description: |
    Choosing a tool or suite of tools has gotten harder as more tools and CI/CD like providers have entered the space. You can now mix and match env0, Terraform, Pulumi, Spacelift, Terraform cloud, CDK, CloudFormation, ARM templates, Helm charts...the list is long!  Watch Lee Briggs and Matty Stratton as they visit the authoring and execution experience of a few different solutions in modern infrastructure as code.
  sortable_date: 2022-04-30T05:07:54Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/l7jTkKS2QRs
transcript: |
    That means it's time for Pulumi vision. Did you know that that's what happens on Fridays, you know it now. Uh I'm Maddie Stratton. I'm a staff developer advocate here at Pulumi. And uh joining me again, just a few short weeks after the last time we did a Pulumi vision stream is my buddy Lee Briggs, who uh Lee uh what do you, what, what would you say you do here? Uh I guess I'm technically a solutions engineer but I've uh been around the company, uh all the company departments at this point. So I do a bit of everything but yes, uh my title is Solutions Engineer at this point. So you engineer some solutions engineer, solutions. Exactly. Yeah. Uh What we're gonna dig into a little bit is Lee had a tweet thread. Um uh looks like it was uh yeah, it was just about a week ago. Actually, it was literally a week ago today and kind of saying, you know, there's a lot of uh oops, sorry. Um There is a, a lot of discussion and challenges and trying to pick an infrastructure as code tool here in the year 2022. So we thought would be kind of fun is we're gonna kind of go through these things. So when we're thinking about Infra Code, infrastructures, code infrastructure software, it's not a new idea. We've been kicking this around for a long time. We've, we've seen a lot of tools and solutions come and go. Um and, you know, kind of want to go through that and then please, you know, in the chat, let us know your questions, your opinions. This is, this is one of those where, you know, sometimes you might be at a conference and someone said this is less of a question, more of a comment. We're like, don't be that person, like absolutely be that person in the chat. We want to hear your comments and your thoughts uh as they go. So, you know, we've got the um you can see there's a short link up there, I'll, I'll paste it in the chat if you want to kind of go along with uh with what we're gonna be talking about. But Lee wants you to talk a little bit about like what, you know, all great Twitter threads have an origin story. Yeah. So I, I hang around the community quite a lot. I mean, a bunch of different de slacks and I think, uh I think Friday, I saw something that I see all the time um when it comes to infrastructure code and, and, and, you know, comparing all the different things and the, the thing that really um kind of like prompted me to start writing about this was the, the idea that um infrastructure code abstractions need to be um inflexible. They need to be um you know, written in A DS L or written in a configuration language. Because if you quote, let software developers write code, you're going to end up with a complex mess and a complex jangle. And I thought, you know, that's something that I see all the time. Um And it's something that I personally believe is a little bit of uh fud. Um So from a um from a personal perspective, I wanted to talk about my experience when choosing infrastructures code and obviously, I'm super biased, like I come from a Pulumi perspective and I work here and I believe that Pulumi is the right solution and right tool for most people at this point. Um But when people start comparing features between different infrastructure as code solutions, they'll talk about the, the, the state management and the the features that are available. And, and I really just think it comes down to two part, two user experience questions and that is how is it to actually define your infrastructure? What is the experience that people get when they're writing the code or writing the configuration to actually define the infrastructure? And then how do you get that from your laptop that you've written into the actual cloud? And that's the execution experience. So that's kind of where it came from. Um you know, trying to pull back the layers of all the, well, you know, you, you have to use this tool because, because I'm an opinionated person and this is the right way to do it. Well, that's one reason. Uh No, but I, I agree with you when it comes to the tech boxes and just for some that what this made me think of. And I didn't really think about it as much when I was reading your thread, but it kind of nailed it like the experience of what it's like. And I'll take a little quick little history lesson. It's not a history lesson of the, the history of, of config management and Infra Infra Code, but just personally so like at least have been kicking around a bit. The reason I'm bringing this up is so I spent more than a couple of years working at Chef, which was uh you know, uh now it's, you know, we'd say it's one of the modern, you know, Infra, you know, uh config management tools, which maybe doesn't feel as modern now because time is a construct. But one of the things that was always really interesting to me, especially when I was working in, I was working as a sales engineer for chef is we would sit there and we're like, OK, how do we um you know, people wanted to understand what it was like and the thing is like kind of getting going with chef was nontrivial, right? So you had to do a lot of stuff to even get to the point, to figure out if you even got any value out of it. And the value was, and we used to, we used to run in this a lot where I would come in, I'd be talking to a pro prospect and they were like, we want to do a proof of concept and I hit a point when I said this is not about proving the concept. The concept is that chef can automate stuff that that concept is sound. And it's proven. The question is, do you have value and not even value from a, we can move x more widgets and our cycle times reduced. But like, will you as a person have this feeling? And so we, we did, I'm not gonna dig into it too much right now. We can talk about it a little bit later if it's interesting about like how we did this process, we called it a proof of value which like all other words in the world are overloaded. They mean other things in different parts of sales. So don't get on me about that. But what we tried to experience was say, hey, I'm gonna come into your organization and your teams, we're gonna spend two days together and it's gonna be like, I have a time machine and I'm gonna flash forward to you six months into your chef adoption and we're gonna work together for a couple days. And this is what working in this world, this world of continuous delivery of Infra Code is gonna be like, so you can decide and then when you have that and you have that kind of feeling and you're like, oh this is rad. I like this experience to be my daily life. Then you're like, OK, cool. Let's figure it out. But if it's all hypothetical, that's no, no good. And so what I'm getting at is it wasn't about the features. It wasn't about the things that go in an RFP, which if you don't know that's a request for, that's what happens. Someone wants to buy software, they're like, they're gonna ask all their vendors the same questions. Do you tick this box? Do you have, you know uh Yaml version 3.7 provider that can work with dod standard 59 stroke Z. But really, it's like, OK, the people using this are what's it gonna be like to do that? So I think to reiterate to Lee's point, it's about the experience and I think that goes into, there are different kinds of you kind of broke down. What did that experience mean? I think there's a lot of parallels between what we're experiencing now and the configuration management battle Days of Puppet Chef and an right? And I think again, something that I see very often is like, well, we tried this with chef and it didn't work, right. And it wasn't successful. And like everybody wanted to use an, and everybody wanted to use puppet because they were like opinionated Ds Ls and the, the, the limited, the, the limited flexibility in the language meant that you could only, you can only make so many mistakes. And I think there's something that's really changed since those days, since, you know, 10, 10 years ago. Now, we were all talking about, you know, whether we were going to choose how we were going to choose a configuration management tool. And now it's 2022 and we, we're doing the same thing but with API driven provisioning and the difference in, in my opinion is that the, the barriers between operations and development have, um you know, really broken down, maybe not in the way that we all expected when devs kind of like started 10 to 15 years ago. I don't really think it, it's taken on a life of its own that I don't think any of us really expected, but more developers are working and interacting with infrastructure. And um I, I certainly personally was one of those system administrator type people, one of those infrastructure type people who really gatekeep was really gatekeeping the cloud and saying, look you, you developers, you don't really know how to do this. And if developers are gonna write infrastructure code, it's gonna turn into a horrible mess. And you know, I have, I have to eat a little bit of humble pie here and say I was completely wrong about that because and there's two reasons right? There are many, many more developers than there are infrastructure people in organizations use is a very, very small team of infrastructure people. And if you're on an infrastructure side of things and you're gatekeeping access to your cloud and provisioning infrastructure, you're not going to be able to manage the um you know, the influx of requests in a way that's gonna allow your organization to scale. That's, that's the first problem. And then the second problem really comes down to the fact that if you're terrified of somebody writing code that you can't understand because of the, the, the power and the express in that language, then really, you aren't really taking an opportunity to learn, you're not taking an opportunity to grow your skills. And I wrote a blog post about a year ago now, in which I talked about my personal journey from an infrastructure based person who was writing shell scripts and very, very small Python scripts to automate stuff and how I used Pulumi to actually become a better software engineer. And that, that's been a really great experience for me. I I I'll be frank and honest that I really didn't understand object orientated concepts until about two years ago because you see the tutorials that talk about. Well, this is a person and then you, you know, an instantiation of a person class is a name class or something like that or like an animal class and a dog class. And it just didn't make any sense to me. I couldn't really get my head around it. And then when you actually apply it to a concept that I knew pretty well in terms of the cloud and like actual provisioning infrastructure. And you, you have a, a Pulumi component resource, which is an abstraction of a, of a, of an instance. And then you can have a managed instance that was a really kind of like eye opening perspective for me. I mean, I would love to know if there's anybody in the chat or whatever that actually finds explaining object oriented programming by using class. Like do is why did we decide this was the right way to do it? I never understood. I mean, unless you're actually coding pets, like maybe you're making the, I remember that I was it, I that the Sony robot dog, like that's literally the only time that happens or maybe uh you know, a virtual pet or something, but most of us aren't doing that. So it's not just us dumb Infra people that, that didn't make sense to, I'm pretty sure it was a lot of us, a lot of people. Um I was thinking to a little bit like you were talking about, you know, first of all, it's just the scale of being able to keep up with that and getting that stuff in the way. One of the things too also is lee, you know, I come from an infrastructure and an ops background and I certainly was someone who felt that my biggest enemy was developers and my biggest job was protecting my systems from them. And um but one of the things I always find really funny is you'll, you'll get a lot of this right? This is why we can't. Uh there you go, classes equals code templates that easy. See, why didn't anybody ever tell me that? Um Hey, I think people can make a lot of great content around actually teaching object oriented content. Don't talk about dogs and animals and people and shit like that. Yeah. Yeah. Um But anyway, the, the funny thing I was thinking is like, I'm like every sis admin or whatever who's like, oh my God, if we gave access to or to have access to production, they wouldn't be trusted, they couldn't do whatever. And I swear to swear any of you, we go to the pub and over a pint, you will tell me every time you completely destroyed production because there's this hubris that having the title of s means we are infallible and I've got news, we all know we're not. But one of my favorite things to do is go to the Red uh Reddit and like, look at the um the she is so that comes out of that place around how users are idiots and that, that, you know, scar everything happens because of we, we get it and I understand it. I understand it really. But I think the, the thing that I learned moving out of infrastructure and infrastructure administration and becoming a software developer slash um you know, sales engineer or solutions engineer is that every part of the organization has value and like telling people they can't do something is not a valuable thing to, to kind of add to an organization. No, is not a, is not a useful word in an organization. In a lot of situations. There are times when you have to use it and you have to be kind of pragmatic about it, but just generally, just generally blocking everybody from being effective is, is generally not going to uh you know, make everybody happy. And so that was my personal learning experience. Um It's, it's for for sure. And I think like this also goes and we'll get into this a little bit. I think maybe a little later when we start talking about the experiences. But one of the things um and I talk about this when I talk about kind of like how I think we're evolving into cloud engineering and and where these things change from devops. But a lot of it is sort of understanding that guard rails um are empowering rather than limiting. So a lot of times people feel like, oh, you know, I don't want to limit people in what they can do because they'll get mad. I'm like, actually, I don't know about you, but I really kind of like it when I feel like guard rails allow people to have a lot of confidence. Right. My, my, my perfect situation and again, it's, it's a biased perspective and I think Pulumi has done a really good job of this and there are other solutions out there to, to kinda do this. But the Pulumi multi-language components, which is a best practice implementation of your infrastructure designed by people who know how it should look combined with some kind of policy engine which kind of like pre like really protects you from the edges of the world, uh really like the perfect um you know, the perfect um combination to me, um you should be able to get what you need done, but you should have those kind of like uh bowling alley buffers on either side of the lane that stop you from falling into the good, right? And I think that's what I see as a policy engine. You know, I know that we're researching some exciting things around policy and how we can manage that here at Pulumi. And we have a policy of code po po policy is code offering. Um But I I'm really um personally excited about like that future. Um you know, and, and it's funny because the cloud providers really, um, allow you to do a bunch of things by default that you really shouldn't be doing like public IP addresses on the internet. No problem, like public databases. And, you know, let's spin up 5000 EC2 instances and have a huge bill and they, they'll let you do that by default and you have to put those guardrails in place. So if we sort of think back to um we talked about the experience and, and, you know, you kind of broke it down to that you have an offering and you have an execution experience. So like kind of what do you want to, you want to talk about those a little bit and then we can actually have a little, a couple of little, um We'll talk a little bit about it and then I have a couple of examples of what I was kind of talking about that. Um But the, so the execution experience I think is one of the most unique parts of the, the kind of um you know, the ecosystem. And before I talk about that, I'll just round out with the authoring experience. It is my opinion. There's, there's basically two camps with the authoring experience. There's the configuration camp, whether that's YAML JSON HCL dial, Jason, any of those different kind of like mechanisms to, to basically output a configuration language and then there's a software language, software language. Uh kind of consideration. It's really, really important to make sure that the distinction between imperative and decorative is not brought in here because even if you're writing things in software languages, the end result is a decorative kind of manifest. And so one of my personal pet peeves and was something that I'm getting really tired of, of dealing with. There's people saying that Pulumi in area CD K are imperative, they are fundamentally not the understanding of how imperative and decorative. You know, when I, when I'm engaging with people like that is, is usually a misnomer around the authoring experience rather than the execution experience. The fact that you're only getting annoyed by this now tells me that you were not someone who was trying to convince people to use Chef back in the day because we've been having arguments like that. It, it doesn't actually I got news for you. It doesn't even matter even if you're right because it's about the experience. But yes, absolutely. Um So the offering experience is, is really in my opinion, shifting heavily towards software, languages and software. In, in my personal experience, you see the investment that Amazon has put into with CD K, you see the investment that has cop is putting into terraform CD K. Pulumi was obviously the innovator here and you know, we, we kind of started this trend and I think everybody's really proud of that. We're kind of changing the way that people look at things and I know, I see Chris is Chris Novas here and I think Chris has talked at length about the kind of uh infrastructure, um languages defined in software. Um Essentially, um I, I personally think that we've, we've as an industry started to move towards, it's very similar to how I felt about seven years ago. Like, it's going in this direction, whether you like it or not. And I think getting on the train now is probably like a good idea. Um You know, and I think we've all kind of decided that that software is the way to go. Um The, this is really great stuff from Chris. We should have got Chris on here. Um The the execution experience is really, really up for grabs at this point in, in my personal opinion, right? Like there is, there's three kind of camps that you fit into. There is the um the traditional C I CD driven mechanism that I think was the beginning of the infrastructures code execution experience, which is you write your infrastructures code program, you shove it into AC I pipeline. All you're allowed to do is use that C I pipeline and it applies against a bunch of API S. And that is the experience I personally don't like that anymore and I'll talk a little bit why in a few minutes? Um uh Yes, David Pulumi was around before A BS CD K. It was not public, but it was definitely around before A DS CD K. Uh If you ever see me in a conference, let's have a beer and I'll talk a little bit more about that. Um So the, the, the execution experience, I personally don't like C I CD with infrastructure anymore because I don't think C I CD is robust enough to actually do the provisioning that you need in a lot of cases, it doesn't have useful execution in terms of retries and back offs and, and all that kind of stuff. I actually think that we're gonna see a lot of workflow engines. Uh temporal is a great example. A cadence, simple workflow engine prefect is based on air flow is very similar to this, these kind of like re triable mechanisms for infrastructure, I think are gonna start to take off a little bit. The second experience is really the server side experience that you get with things like Azure resource manager. And uh you know cloud formation, you write things in CD K, you get a a cloud formation template, you apply that cloud form, you send that cloud formation template to AWS and AWS handles provisioning all those resources. It's kind of a very hands off but very very opinionated mechanism where I personally see Pulumi um you know, really winning here in in my opinion is that we let you decide what execution experience you want to have. You can use the C I CD experience, you can use automation API and build custom command line tools and, and web interfaces or you can uh you know, attach it to uh workflow engine type stuff and, and create server side components very similar to how cloud formation works. You obviously have to build them yourself, but you can actually choose your own adventure. There, there are a couple of things I just wanted to. Yeah, I was sort of catching up on the chat a little bit. I've been a couple of things in there too, but I think that's a really good point that Nova makes. Which is right, if how you get there, right? The thing is if something is not changing, then it's not changing. And there's ways you can address that in, in, in several things, right? Which is to be able to say this is again, we, we, we have these arguments about philosophical declarative, it, you know, imperative and then also, you know, nobody's um nobody's brought up uh item potency. Oh, by the way, so we are putting the chat. So the consolidated chat you should see in the stream. But yes, we're, we're, we're streaming a couple places. So you won't necessarily see everybody's comments inside your chat thingy, but you will see it in the stream over to the side, right in, in the, in the video itself. So we're, we're doing the best we can um when it comes to that. So cool. Um So we kind of think about that. So, so y'all who are in the chat, like what are your, you know, kind of as we're going would love to hear kind of where you're seeing what makes sense to you because we kind of said there's different perspectives on that, um where those go in and I think when you kind of touched on something too that I can bring up like we, we, we use this, this is getting into a little bit of a peeve of mind slightly. We use the word we use this consolidated term of C I CD to fundamentally just mean a an orchestrated pipeline that has an input, a bunch of stuff happens and something happens at the end. And I will tell you that 90% of the time it has nothing to do with C I. And also everybody gets confused about what the D means because it can mean two different things and it doesn't matter, none of them are right or wrong, but there's a confusion about that. But, but fundamentally, I think having an automated flow but whether or not so so I just want to sort of make sure I'm kind of getting your, your thought when you say you don't, you don't feel that the pipelines is it, is it like sort of bringing the infrastructure with the application pipeline like or is it just like a very common, a very common pattern that we're seeing? Like let's say you're an organization that has a multi tenant application and you vision a bunch of infrastructure or resources per tenant, right? Like you um you know, you have a web page and then the the user signs up and the in the back end um you know, it provisions a bunch of infrastructure that then the user can log into their SAS application. The the default setting for a lot of organizations that I've seen that are starting down this path is that they will set off AC I pipeline for every single user that signs up, right? And it, it triggers AC I pipeline that then runs to completion and then returns a bunch of results. Now, the problem with most C I and CD tools, whether they are um you know, get hub action circle C I and all that kind of stuff is that if you use them to do that kind of uh multistage orchestration, the retrial and the actual consistency and the reliability of that is really usually really low. And I actually built something like this at a previous employer. And what we found was we, what we found was we were spending more time nursing the broken pipelines through to completion than we were actually provisioning customers, right? And um you know, this is a really, really common refrain of mine of like, you know, C I CD pipelines were designed in a world where you were supposed to do unit tests and integration tests on code, they weren't designed to do complex workflow orchestration and we've seen products turn up that are really designed to solve this problem. Um And they're really, really good. Uh a colleague of ours Mikhail Selkov did an excellent uh blog post about integrating Pulumi with temporal and using Pulumi and automation API to drive the execution um which I will fish out in a few moments and we'll share. But those, those mechanisms when you want reliability in your infrastructure provisioning, shoving it into AC I CD pipeline is often not the default setting there. Like if you are just kind of having uh like the base infrastructure, then C I CD can be great. But if you're designing a platform that you want to other people to use, um you know, it's, it's really important that you kind of think about the reliability and I'm going to talk about another talk uh that I saw a few years ago and again, I'll fish it out in a few seconds that talks about the mathematics of reliability in the sense that if you have two different C I pipelines that are 99.9% completion, like successful, you multiply them together and they're actually 99.7% successful. And having these chaining mechanisms inside your infrastructure provisioning is um you know, we can create and reliability. Um And so I really, I really don't agree with um using CS CD pipelines heavily when it comes to infrastructure provisioning at this stage. Um But there's a lot of work to do in this area. Like I said, I think the execution experience is, um you know, really up for grabs at this point. I think we're gonna see a lot of innovation here. To be honest, the chat is very busy. Uh And I love this. I know and, and, and, and nobody, nobody is, I think that chat is gonna be too, actually, let's see what happens if I try to show the whole thing. Yeah, that's, that's what I gonna say. It's gonna be too much but, but the, the keys of that um I think was, was sort of saying some things that were similar in some, some additional stuff but uh CD not being necessarily, you know, this is not necessarily net positive for most systems. That's absolutely true. Right. So if we think about what the idea of continuous delivery is versus continuous deployment, it's just that your, your code is deployable at any time, it's a business decision. Um That's not necessarily uh uh combined and congruent with, with, with complex infrastructure. And if you, yeah, like they said, you, Nova says, if you mo most people that build a pipeline and if you have to do anything that's not in the pipeline, you're, you're kind of screwed with that. Um I'm really trying to find Mchale's blog post. Uh I actually think it's a repo Yeah. OK. There we go. That's I was gonna say that I got, I, I will uh drop that in um the Pulumi temporal workflow because that's the one OK. We'll drop that in the chat. And I think temporal has uh you know, I love the, I, I think what that building is really, really interesting. Um but um what they um what they're building is really, really a great fit for Pulumi and automation api um it's, it's, it's a really, really powerful combination. Um The other thing that I talked about the mathematics of reliability, uh talk that I talked about, which is by uh a gentleman I met many years ago called uh A and he did this amazing talk and I've just sent it to you over the chat so you can share the link. He did this talk that talks about um how if you multiply um five or six things that you think are reliable together, the reliability gets much, much lower. Um And so those two things together are really part of what I'm talking about when I say the uh the execution experience and, and what that means, uh maybe now is a good time to kind of pivot into doing a quick demo. I haven't done a whole bunch of practice here. So it'll be very live and very potentially broken, but we'll see what it looks like. That's, that's what we do here on Pulumi Vision. If you're, if you're new to Pulumi vision and you're expecting some slick, you know, well tuned. Everything works great demos. Then I recommend you go somewhere else. But if you want to see us, uh, work at the, uh, the edge of our comfort zone. Well, we're learning together, Marty. That's essentially what we've got here. Right. So, you'll see here. I've got three, repositories and I'm, I haven't, actually, they won't see anything yet because I haven't let them see anything. There you go. Hey, can you Emig in that by like much more? Yeah, there we go. Not bad, but a little more, a little more. What are you doing? I am making it bigger and I know they're clear and then I can't tell if you made it bigger. That looks great. Let's try that, let it that if it's not in big enough. So I've kind of grabbed the, the foremost um kind of um well known infrastructure. Um you know, infrastructure tools. I actually never got the cross playing exam finished. So, but I'll talk a little bit about that in a few minutes. So with the Terraform code that we have here, I've just written a very simple Terraform Pro that creates a VPC and creates a subnet. Obviously, we talked about the offering experience. You can use Aws uh Sorry, Terraform CD K if you wish. Um But essentially the um the, the experience when you're actually provisioning um or the infrastructure is you would run a plan, you maybe get a plan manifest and then you run Terraform apply and it kind of runs like this. Um And that's, that's generally what you are going to um experience and it hit. Yes. And it will go and do the provision and blah, blah, blah, blah. And this is kind of what you're expecting to happen, right? Like it's, it's, it's, this could be in a CS CD pipeline, it could be run from your local laptops or whatever. Um And this is generally the experience that I think most people getting into infrastructures code are used to and familiar with and you know, the the in, in a lot of situations, there's really nothing wrong with this. But um the user experience can often be really difficult because let's say you have a team of software developers who are now trying to manage their own application. They have to know the C I CD tool inside and out. They have to know the um how the actual thing works. They have to be able to run all the commands to actually get things set up. Um And they don't really have a lot of choice, they don't really get to choose how they want things to, to work and operate. And, you know, if there's one thing that I've learned about developers, it's like they like to make their lives easier and they like to have an easy, easy time of things and kind of introducing this, this kind of uh mechanism is um you know, they have to learn all these pipelines and stuff. One of the things that I love to hear is like, if you can't learn HCL and you can't learn terraform, are you really a software developer? And I'm just like, that's not a really, that, that's a really weird thing to say. Like they're actually writing code in high level languages every day. The fact that they, that they don't want to learn this random tool that you introduced to them because you said it was the right way to do things is really kind of an interesting tactic. But anyway, I digress uh the second experience that we kind of talk about is the CD K experience. And so I have a CD K project here. Um If you look in my library, you can see, I'm just, again creating a VPC um here and, and, and very similar workflow. Um And what you would do here is you would do CD K since then we'll wait a second. I can hear my laptop fans whirring in the background, which is always a good sign. You, you must be um compiling nori Yeah, there's a good old call back for, for, oh man, I, I will not miss Noko Geri, let me tell you. Um And so the asset that you actually end up with in the execution experience very similar to a terra plan is you get this um you know, this cloud formation template which is a bunch of and I personally have offered cloud formation templates in the past. I never want to have to write these again. Like, I mean, if it like, obviously, it's, it's it's complicated by the CD K auto generation. But this like if I was to look at this, I would have no idea what this is actually doing without really studying what's going on here. Um So, from an authoring experience, it's, it's kind of interesting. Um but essentially, it's gonna create a VPC and it's gonna create this, this um this static manifest. Um And it's, and this is the kind of thing that you apply and then you do CD K deploy and this is the, the CD K deploy command runs locally, but it's essentially sending this cloud formation template off to somewhere else and that is being run inside cloud formation. So you can see it's creating this cloud formation change set and it's going away and actually kind of provisioning on the cloud provider side. And if you've ever used cloud formation, you'll be super familiar with these creating progress and roll back fail complete and all that kind of stuff uh things that you get. Um But essentially this is the um you know, the experience that you are getting when you are doing execution via cloud formation templates, it's all handled server side, you kind of don't get any ability to change this at all as a user, you are essentially handing off the experience to cloud formation for all of the uh the pros and cons of that. Um And so this is something that I think, um you know, we often hear when we talk to Pulumi customers about. Well, what about CD K? And this is something that I personally, I don't really enjoy handing off these things to, to cloud formation uh for a variety of reasons that I won't get into now. But um you know, handing these things off to cloud formation is an opinionated mechanism that you are going to have to live with when you are deploying your infrastructure. Um And that's something that I think is, is always interesting. So I'll wait for that to finish and I kept the authoring experience for these two examples, relatively simple because I had to throw them together in a couple of hours this morning. Um But then I am going to show you in a second, the, the, the different types of Pulumi experience you get. Um And, and why I think Pulumi is unique in its, in its mechanism because it will allow you to choose your experience basically. And, and you know, was it if, if you've ever looked at our website, there's a case studies website and I, I don't know if you want to pull that up, but there's a really great um uh case study that I like to talk about with all of our customers that talks about uh by Panther labs and they talk about and they actually measured how much more productive if they were moving from cloud formation to Pulumi. And they took graphs and everything and like not only were they writing less code, it was way, way faster. Um It was much, much faster. Now, it's not a valid comparison because this um this CD K construct is also deploying NAT gateways which take a little bit of time. But that Panther labs case study. I, I love sharing that with customers because a customer of ours, Panther labs who we love, uh basically, uh you know, evaluated Pulumi and we're kind of blown away by how much faster um their experience was. Um So, you know, I think that's a really great case study and uh hopefully everybody gets a chance chance to read it while we're waiting for this to finish. Let's look at the Pulumi experience and hopefully that's embi enough Matt. What do you think one way to find out if anybody complains that? Right. So the, the Pulumi execution experience. So let me make sure I've got it. That, that was also the key to the old C A in me, which is what does this thing do? I don't know. Let's turn it off and see if anybody complains. That's how we know what that server does. I, I was uh I was helping a buddy with a projector the other day and, uh, like the projector wasn't working and I just turned it off and turn it back on again. And I was like, this is my job now. Um, I, I was in an organization and we had a Nobel server and nobody knew. I mean, we had many, no, we had no, but there was one network server. We, like, we don't know what this is. We don't know what's on it. And they were like, OK, we're gonna put in change control. I'm just gonna turn it off and I hope it works for about a month or so. Nobody said anything. And so yeah, so the the execution experience for Pulumi, right? Like um I've got a multi-language component here. We, we did a great um we did a great live stream a couple of weeks ago about how to build these multi-language components. So you can see the offering experience is basically whatever language you wish to choose. I'm gonna run, let's run the Python example. Um And so this is a multi-language component. It's not a direct comparison to the CD K and terraform examples because um you know, II I have an existing multi-language component I can share. So you can see here, I'm going to deploy a bunch of infrastructure with Pulumi and I can of course have the same experience as a. Um No, I cannot. Oh I need to, I need to activate my virtual in hold on a second VM then activate clear pip three install minus R requirement. No, OK. I'm gonna, I'm gonna bail out on this and go to the no jazz example. Hey bod. So M PM install. OK. Cool. And then on link uh next um uh I think it should work. Uh Pulumi preview. Hey, if this is your first time turning, tuning into a Pulumi vision live stream, throw a little hands up emoji in the chat. Oh man, you see this is what you get for not. Um uh I'm gonna switch the go uh example now because you know why not? Uh I haven't set this up properly. Probably me preview DEV. OK. So this is the experience that you would usually get with Pulumi. It's the C I CD to be able to, to kind of um run a preview and then run a Pulumi up and uh this is compiling a go binary at the moment. So it's gonna take a second. Uh This is what you get for not being prepared. Um So you can see it's gonna provision a bunch of infrastructure and I can follow the um you know, follow the usual mechanism that you get with um you know, with a infrastructures code and um you know, run a Pulumi up, you can run a Pulumi preview, you can do all those kind of things that you kind of used to in your standard kind of execution cycle. And so you know, it's very common to see users. Um you know, use Pulumi in AC IC pipeline. It's usually where most organizations start and I think it's the correct place to start in a lot of circumstances. Um you know, as you're building your infrastructure and as you're starting out with a tool, putting it into AC I CD pipeline and authoring your code in, um you know, the, the language that you understand, in this particular case, it's written in the GO SDK. Um That's, that's generally what we um you know what we, what we recommend. And so that's very similar to the Terra Farm experience. Now, what I think is unique about Pulumi is that you can also choose your experience. And so what I've got here is a um a uh custom command line tool um that is going to allow us to choose our experience. So let's say help. So what I've done here is I've put this um Pulumi program into a uh command line app application which I'm calling Prod app and I can now create a very similar experience to something you might see in a platform as a service like Heroku. And so if I do deploy help and I'm gonna call this matty and I'm gonna call the image equals and gene X and you can see look because I'm creating my own command line tool. I can add default settings like the default port and stuff like that. Uh hopefully I've prepared everything here. But look, I can create my own manual, custom um user experience. Uh and shout out to my uh friend and former colleague Kamau Ali for helping me build this amazing user experience here. Um But I, I can kind of create my own adventure. Um And this execution experience, you can put things in, you could put this in things like um you know, you can, you could put this into a CS CD pipeline if you really wanted to. But you could also kind of connect all of the code that we have in the command line interfaces that we, that we built. You can add that to a workflow engine. You can really, because you can do basically anything with this. Um you know, with the code that you've written, it's possible for you to kind of build your, your own user experience. Now, if you like more of the um you know of the web interface type mechanism maybe you want to build. Oh man, I was stealing your thunder in the chat. So I was, I put a link to a blog post I wrote about, about a developer portal, but it's probably gonna use the same uh platform that you're about to show. Uh So this is where I get for changing how I use Python last night. Um And so I have basically, I ripped out my Python in, in version and you started using PPP M. So let's do 3.10 dot This is not gonna work. I don't think this is gonna work. Uh Let's try now. Pip three install. No, that's not gonna work. This is not gonna work. Oh, I'm so frustrated. I should have prepared a little bit better, but there is actually a web interface here that um are created um using flask which kind of builds our, um you know, uses our program and so you can actually create your own server side experience as well if you're willing to um using um using the Pulumi SDK as well and using automation API. So the key thing to really remember here is that it's quite possible for you to kind of think completely rethink the infrastructure's code execution experience. If you really want to, like if, if AC I CD workflow is not necessarily the right way that you would, you would like to, to kind of like define infrastructure deployments for your downstream users with automation API with Pulumi, you can basically choose the experience that you really want. So uh lesson learned for me to uh not switch Python interpreters overnight. And uh hopefully I'll uh I'll, I'll tinker around in the background while we're uh kind of finishing this out and see if I can get this working. But yeah, it's, it's, it's possible for you to be able to kind of do anything you really want um When it comes to Pulumi me. See, OK, I was, I was gonna say, yeah, there been been a lot of folks uh been things coming up in the chat about, about automation API and that being a thing and I will tell you, you know, just on a personal story. Um that was one of the things when I was, was looking to come to come join Pulumi and it was, it was shortly before automation api I think had been announced. But it was, but I remember, you know, talking through, you know, with, with Joe and you know, founder and these ideas and I didn't even know that it 100% was referred to, to me in, in the name that it had. But it was like, OK, this is what is making a lot of sense to me about what and and again, as someone who spent a lot of time in the chef ecosystem and seeing what people were trying to do with chef, and we built a lot of jump hosts with Janky Bash to tie together chef cookbooks to do things where, because what you're doing almost never are you, you know, configuring at one instance that lives by itself, right? And I'm not even talking about your distributed micro services and all that, but your systems are the compute and the data and then also all the supporting systems like pager duty and service now and new relic and all these other pieces that come into it. And when we think about what I want to be able to do in whatever is the right again to, to, to least point how do you, this all comes back to devops collaboration too because nobody in an organization, you, you know, there was a time you could hold that whole stack in your head. You know, I mean, there is, you know, years ago I could sit there and I could think about, you know, when I was at, I was at apartments dot com for a long time and I ran tech s there and, and I, I understood that whole system. I knew the stack. I knew what all the services were. I knew what they did. I knew what, talk to what I knew all the names of the databases, even though they changed by the way, one of my favorite things, uh, because you never can rename anything because it's so hard. We had one service that was basically the thing we used to send out emails and the database had one name. The web service had another name and the Windows service had yet a third name because they were all named after the product we used. Every time you change the product you couldn't change the thing anyway. It's the old, it's the old computer science outage, right? Like three hot things and computer science naming things and off by one problems. Right. Like, yeah, like, but even then, even in a complicated system, like, that it was able to understand that you can't do that now. And so it means that we have to be more collaborative both in terms of like how we solve problems and how we, you know, if we think about responding to incidents and stuff. But when we're building our infrastructure, like these things are all very intertwined and we have these code dependencies and our systems are distributed even in ways we didn't design them to be distributed. So long story short, you can't have just one way. So I think that goes back to Lee's point which is like, how are we building things in a way that is collaborative where everybody can bring their piece of the, the knowledge of the domain knowledge to the automation to the deployment to all of that rather than having a few people in the organization that somehow have to know everything because they know the deployment tool. I think the one thing I want people to take away from the conversation we've had today is that like when you are choosing anything, whether it's infrastructure tooling, whether it's a um you know, whether it's a a random no Js front end or one of the million, no, no Js Front ends. The thing that I really like people to take away is that like we all have our personal preferences, I have my personal preferences on lots of things. But in order to grow in your career and be a successful uh technologist and, and be somebody who is going to um you know, be able to, to kind of become a leader or a technical leader or a principal engineer or whatever, you need to be able to be pragmatic enough to think about what everybody wants to do. And I think this is somewhere where, um you know, we talked about the, the, the configuration languages versus software languages thing, the industry is changing if you really want to hold on few configuration languages and you really want to um you know, um think about um the way that these things are done, it, it's, it's, it's gonna be a tough slog for you. You know what I mean? It's gonna be, it's gonna be really, really difficult for you to um you know, think about the future. Um because at the end of the day, more people are going to want to use software languages than configuration language. It's just, it's just at this stage, there's way where there's 10 million Java developers, there's, there's countless javascript developers, you know, like we, we are at the point where I think the um you know, the the tide has turned and we, we really need to start thinking about the user experience from a um from a, a personal perspective that includes everybody rather than your own personal preferences. And guess what, Marie, I got this demo working. All I know is, is I, I don't know if I'm the only one. And again, I, I feel like oftentimes on the stream, I, I age myself but when Lee said, think about the future, all I could think about was Jack Nicholson in the 1989 Batman going hey ear, think about the future. Um I love this thing from so in the chat, I just popped it up on the screen though. It said that you're building a platform to automatically spawn infrastructure and deploy the system for their consultants. Um And that's really, really great. That's super exciting stuff. Um So OK, what did you, what did you fix this? Just give me a second. Give me a second. I I fixed it. Except not yet. I just got. OK, so you ready for me? I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. Here we go. So I installed all my dependencies and got everything working again. Um And you can see here, I've started a little flask web application so this could be running in your production environment. It could be running in a fog container or something along those lines. Yeah. Why don't you pop your camera off for a second? Because then everybody can see the screen. That's the only way I can pull you and me off this. OK. There we go. Um So this is the um the web service started up and this is the again, shout out to my uh my friend, an amazing former colleague, Kamal. Ali for putting this the, you know, building the foundations of this demo. Um But you can build these kind of self serve platforms that you can use to, for people to provision infrastructure. So I'm gonna hit create new, I'm gonna call this Marty Web and I'm gonna run the engine docket image and we know the engine docker image runs on port 80. So I'm gonna hit create and if I go back to my um logs here, uh you can see he's running a Pallo program in the background, right? It's creating a bunch of Kuti stuff. Um And uh I'm getting an error that one of our streams is having connection issues. Hopefully everybody can see me, you, you, I'm seeing, it looks like everything is OK, you're, your shared screen is coming through, your audio is coming through. So that's all that matters. So it's provision in our web application. But again, we've got that server side experience that you would get with as your resource manager and with uh cloud formation, it's the same experience. But Pulumi is given us the capability and the mechanism to create our own server server side experience without having to, you know, kind of get baked into the um you know, the experience that cloud formation gives us and I can hit delete here and it's gonna go and delete that and all that kind of stuff. And so um one thing that I see and think is a really powerful nation is creating self serve platform like this, that then dispatches jobs into another kind of worker mechanism, whether that's um a job or deployment or something like temporal slash cadence, that can actually do the provisioning itself, that you can still create your own server side experience here. Um um And this is just a simple demo. So like um you know, it just kind of does it all on the web page. But if you need something way more robust and way more um kind of powerful, you can build all of this together um with a uh a service side experience. And I think this is the thing that I was trying to get across in the thread really, in terms of um you know, in terms of experience, in terms of the execution experience, this is what Pulumi gives you, this is what we are trying to do. I think there, I, I do genuinely think there's gonna be a lot of innovation here over the next, um you know, over the next couple of years because the authoring experience is really what we've all focused on for such a long time, but the execution experience is up for grabs. And I think I've said that a couple of times already, but hopefully it's coming across, I think, I think one of the keys and what's, what's sort of hidden behind this a little bit. Um And you're putting the execution in front of it, but there's a little bit of something that maybe, you know, the, the good practice of like the component resources kind of thing kind of straddles the offering and the execution a little bit. Um But conceptually, but here, here again, we go back to the guard rails idea. Right. And um if we're kind of thinking about how like, um the, I always again apologize, I mean, they sort of use like an Apache tomcat example, but it's, it's, there's, there's other, there's other places, but at least we're gonna sort of be kind of agnostic and not talk about a specific cloud because we'll talk about an old Java, you know, uh application server instead. But OK, so let's say I'm the middleware admin somewhere, right? And I'm like, OK, there's like 50,000 different dials, you can turn on Tomcat. I'm an application developer that just wants to deploy something Tomcat. There's like five things that I want to be able to set. So anyway, long story short, we're trying to do here is codify your organization's good practices and standards into a way that they can be consumed, right? We're on and, and so for non software developers, like me and Lee who don't understand, like, you know, object oriented stuff and because we don't understand dogs and cats, right? What we're doing is it's an abstraction, right? We're saying we're, we're exposing this particular thing. So what I like to do is think about, um to use the metaphor is if they were saying again, like the Kubernetes deployment that was there, there's a lot of stuff that could go in that deployment. What, what I is the subject matter expert on Kubernetes deployments in the way that we do them in my organization. I define the shape of the dial. What you get to do is just decide what you turn the dial to. And that's cool. I like that. That's a really great ana you have to go in and like answer, you know, again, think about this, whether it's a, we, you know, fundamentally think about it as a giant web form, even if it's in programming. And I'm like, ok, I have to answer 100 and 50 different questions to get this kubernetes deployment happening. I know three things. I care about three things. Ok, cool. I want to do that. You do all the rest and this is when we talk about, like you think about this idea of what I call lower case and upper case compliance, right? Upper case compliance is like socks and, you know, PC I and whatever lower case compliance is just following the standards of your company or your organization. And if we can codify that it makes it a lot easier for people to, to meet them. And there's two ways you can approach that and you kind of need to approach it in both one of the more traditional ways is, well, we'll put a bunch of tests into our pipeline and make sure you don't jack stuff up. Ok. Cool. But that sucks because I don't know that I jacked it up till I hit the test and whatnot. And I don't even know I have to do all that. But if I make it, I always believe you make the right way, the easy way and, and this is, this, this is how we're bringing it back to, to, to like kind of my Dev ops preaching if you will, right? People, people ask me a lot of times what are the best Devops books? And none of them are technical. I mean, there's great Dev ops books that are technical. But so, I mean, I, I'm only, I, I, I've been around long enough to remember the Dev Ops was supposed to be culture. Uh All of them, we just talk about culture the most because it's one of the people have to hear. Nobody has to convince engineers to play with automation you're just gonna use. But absolutely. So, so I'll tell you there's 222. But the, the reason I'm going, I'm going somewhere with the story. It'll make sense. It'll all come back to this, trust me. So people say the two most important Devoss books, I'll say they're Freakonomics and then there's a book. Oh yeah, they're also uh user Sherma Nova's right. The other one though is this book called switch and it's about change management. And I don't mean it change management or C MD BS. It's called how to change when change is hard. And there's a story in there about this place where they, you know, it was a manufacturing company and they had this machine and people kept cutting their hands on the blade. So traditionally, how would we solve this problem? We'd throw a lot of training at it. We put up a lot of warning signs. We'd do all this communication. They redesigned the machine so that to turn it on, you had to use two hands, which meant you were physically incapable of getting your hand in front of the blade because you couldn't turn it on otherwise. So the more that we can make the right way, the easy way people will go that path because that's what we want, not because they're lazy. We want to do good work. But, you know, take that cognitive load off and, and, and take us down that happy path. Um But I, I really do. Uh I, I think, you know, I'm gonna have to, you know, good, good Debs copy, great Dev Steel. So I might have to steal Nova's uh line there when I talk about my best Devops books. But, you know, man, is, is the right one there. Um I think, I think we'll finish out with like, um if, if you're in this space and you think that you know, five or six years ago or even 10 years ago with configuration configuring management that things were going to, um you know, be finished for want of a better way of phrasing it. Um We, I think we, we're just about to hit the most exciting part of infrastructures, code infrastructure software um in the next three or four years, right. Like we, there's still so much to happen here, there's still great innovation coming through all of the different players in the game. Um You know, we didn't even talk about crossplay today. It's a completely different mechanism for execution experience. Um uh I, I've said it on Twitter. Uh I'm gonna say it again to everybody watching. We have an event next week on May the fourth and um we have so much exciting stuff coming out next week that, you know, I pride myself on keeping up to date with everything that we release because, you know, I'm first line with our customers and I want to be able to talk about it. It, I had to take a second and actually remember what was going on next week because there is so much stuff being announced and we've randomly dropped a feature yesterday on the Pulumi service side because we had so much content for next week that we had to kind of release something a week early. Uh We had to take something out of the agenda. Uh And that was all tokens if you're not familiar with that. So, do join us. Uh, if you, if you aren't a Pulumi user and you're just here to, um, you know, uh, enjoy Maddie's, uh Maddie's conversation and you, you're not a Pulumi user. Um enjoy anyway, because there's, there's loads and loads of great content coming up on, on the fourth of May and uh I'm super excited about it and I think, you know, we, we are really in an exciting time for infrastructures code. I think, I think you make a good point. I'm gonna kind of really quick to sort of step through because there's, there's absolutely things happening at Pulumi Up that are not Pulumi specific. So I um did a, did a little bit of a presentation, had a fireside chat with Justin Fitzhugh of Snowflake and we really were just talking about organizational change, which was amazing. Um There is an infrastructure is code panel that, that Chris Nova amongst uh some other folks is on, I, I'm bringing up Nova because she's been in the chat and uh pretty much is a banger of a, of a panel. Don't miss it. Um We got a bunch of other cool stuff and then finally the other thing that is part of Pulumi Up, it's happening on May 5th. So it'll be the follow up day. But if you register for Pulumi Up, which is free, you get into it. We're having our very first Pulumi Community Summit. Uh So, um I wanna say it's from like 8 a.m. to noon. Uh Pacific Us, Pacific time on the fifth and it's all open spaces. We'll be talking about things people want to do with Pulumi. Again, it's gonna be more, a little more Pulumi focused. Um, but it's, it's open spaces and it's one of my favorite types of things. I'm really looking forward to it and we'll have the whole Pulumi community there which some of them might, might get, you know, we might get our patron from Pulumi. Some of us don't, but we're all part of the community and we'll all be together. And um our next uh again, whatever platform you're watching on here push like, subscribe, follow. I don't know, it's all different on all the different ones but do the thing. I'm gonna jump in there. I'm gonna jump in there. You just said, uh we might not all get our paychecks from Pulumi. Uh If you want to get your paycheck from Pulumi, we are hiring like crazy. Um And I did a thread yesterday, I made a transition from infrastructure engineering into developer advocacy. And now I'm in solutions engineering. If you're thinking that having that on call pager is kind of the end of your like, you're losing the end of your tether with that on call pager and you want to kind of talk to customers and produce amazing content like this. Get in touch with me or um you know, get in touch with me or Maddie or anyone else at Pulumi. Um, and we will happily talk to you about what we're doing here at Pulumi. If any of this excites you come and join us, come and work with us. We, we are a rocket ship. So, uh, you know, it's, it's a really great place to work. The um, yeah, and we got that. So again and we, uh you know, so please, uh, tune in. Actually our next me, I started the stream by saying, hey, it is, uh, you know, it's Friday, which means it's time for Pulumi vision that said next week's Pulumi vision will be on a Thursday at a different time because it's part of Pulumi up. But uh uh towards the end of the day, um, so around 2 30. No, sorry at noon, Pacific. Um, here on Pulumi Vision, I will have uh Luke Hobin, who's our CTO and we're gonna just recap all the amazing stuff that, that, that happened the day before. And if you are finally sorry because all this stuff, there's just so much, we're very excited about Pulumi up. We're also very excited about all of the sleeping that we will do when it's over because everyone will be so tired, um, from, from all this stuff that we're bringing you. But if Pulumi is new to you and you haven't done anything with it, but you're kind of into it, I will be teaching a workshop uh next Thursday too. All of this stuff is on. If you go to the Pulumi up link that I put in the chat and I put on the stream, check it out, you'll see all the stuff. We're super excited. Thanks for joining us. Follow, subscribe, like do all the things and we will see you on.

---
