---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Getting Started with Pulumi Insights: AI, Search and Analytics | Workshops"
title: "Getting Started with Pulumi Insights: AI, Search and Anal..."
meta_desc: |
    Pulumi makes deploying cloud resources faster and simpler at scale. As teams deploy resources across many cloud providers and SaaS platforms they g...
url_slug: getting-started-pulumi-insights-ai-search-analytics-workshops
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Getting Started with Pulumi Insights: AI, Search and Analytics | Workshops"
  description: |
    Pulumi makes deploying cloud resources faster and simpler at scale. As teams deploy resources across many cloud providers and SaaS platforms they generate massive amounts of data about each update and resource in their organization and can now leverage this data to derive critical business insights. With Pulumi Insights, users have Search, Analytics, and Intelligence capabilities at their fingertips and this workshop will show you how each feature can make your team more productive by: ▪️ Finding resources across multi-cloud deployments ▪️ Exporting Insights data to your favorite analytics platform ▪️ Assisting the creation of new infrastructure code with the power of Pulumi AI  
  sortable_date: 2023-05-24T12:00:11Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/FX5utv5eU6o
transcript: |
    Hello, everybody. This is getting started with Pulumi Insights. My name is Josh. I'm a senior solutions architect here at Pulumi. Uh with me is Marina Marina if you'd like to introduce yourself. Yeah, thank you, Josh. Uh excited to be here. Uh As usual. Um I'm a senior partner social at Aws. I work with Pulumi on different new features capabilities. Uh how to make Pulumi even better for Aws. I don't know, it's hard becoming hard. Pulumi is pretty good already. But yeah. Um if you have any questions, I'll be helping today to uh Bryce and uh Josh and just put it in the chat and, uh or Q and A. Thank you. And also joining us today is Bryce, Bryce, if you would like to introduce yourself. Hey, yeah, I'm Bryce. I'm an engineer on the Plum cloud side of the house and I'm really excited to show off some of the stuff we've been working on recently. Awesome. Ok. So, uh before we begin a little bit of housekeeping, um do comment in the chat, um, let us know if something, uh you know what, what you like if you're impressed by something, uh, if you have any questions, you can ask those questions um preferably in the Q and A tab, but we're monitoring both the Q and A and the chat. Uh The difference with the Q and A tab is that it um stores the question um so that it doesn't scroll out of view for us. Um But we do, uh we will try to catch your questions uh and answer them uh in real time wherever possible, whether you ask in the chat, uh or in the Q and A, you can uh join us in the Pulumi community Slack. Uh If you go to slack dot Pulumi dot com, um It is an awesome, awesome place to learn about Pulumi or ask questions. Um There are Pulumi staff members in there such as myself, uh and Bryce. Uh we have also um like a really, really engaged community there and you can ask anything whether it's like, how do I do this infrastructure on my preferred cloud um or um you know, even like advanced, you know, basic stuff with Pulumi to like the most advanced stuff with Pulumi. Um I've seen people ask questions at all different levels uh in the Pulumi community Slack. And like it really is, I think one of the uh the best ways to learn uh how to use Pulumi uh we have uh in the handouts tab, you can download the slides for this presentation if you like um everybody uh who has signed up uh will get a recording of this uh this, this webinar uh 1 to 2 days after um after this is completed. Um And it'll be like a link to um to youtube. Um So, no worries. That's a, that's a question that like always comes up is do we get a recording? And the answer is yes, you'll get a follow up email within 1 to 2 days. Uh Feedback is always welcome. Please let us know like, hey, what worked for you? Uh What, what didn't work and uh what type of content you'd like to see more of because we want to serve you. Uh our audience? Cool. Um So, uh if you have not yet signed up for a Plumy account, it is free for individual use forever. Um I cannot stress enough how much easier it is to learn Pulumi uh using the default Pulumi Cloud back end. Um So I definitely encourage everybody to sign up for a Plumy account if you have not yet done. So, uh Pulumi Cloud, we're gonna show you some of the features in the U I but even if you're just using the uh all otherwise open source stuff, um It will manage your state file and your secrets for you and it is uh in my view, uh by far the most convenient way to do that once you are up and running and comfortable with Pulumi, uh if you are thinking about adopting it at an organizational level. That would be a great time to sign up for a free trial. Uh There is no credit card required and you will get full, full access to all of our um our highest level features uh for 14 days. Um So again, like, uh sign up for a plumy account regardless uh with your, when you're learning Pulumi and if you're thinking about adopting at an organizational level, please sign up uh for that for that free trial for an organization. Um a little bit about what Pulumi is for those who aren't familiar. Uh Pulumi is an infrastructures code tool that allows you to use real programming languages and we'll get into which ones those are in just a minute um with a whole bunch of clouds. So we have uh 100 and 30 providers. Uh yeah, something like that, about 100 and 100 and 30 plus providers. Um And uh again, you can use real programming languages to manage those resources. Uh We also have an A I feature which we will be uh showing later uh in this uh in this workshop. Uh And we also have some really cool features like um our automation API um which allows you to write command line tools and web UIs um to do like platform engineering type stuff um that will allow you to encapsulate Pulumi within uh your own programs a little bit about Pulumi program model uh at the outermost level we have the Pulumi project. You don't generally deal with projects too much directly. They're really created when you initialize your Pulumi program. Uh and they kind of disappear if you destroy the, the last uh stack within the project, we had a program. Uh We are using typescript today. So the program's main entry point is index dot TS. Uh That's where we're gonna be defining our infrastructure. Uh Our infrastructure is defined via Pulumi resources. Pulumi. Uh An example of Pulumi resource is an AWS S3 bucket. Resources have inputs and they have outputs. Uh An example of an input to a bucket might be if you're explicitly specifying the name uh and an output would be an example of that would be like an A RN. And so as you write a Pulumi program, you will see this pattern of uh where one resources output becomes the next re resources input. So if we have a bucket and we wanted to find a bucket policy, uh the A RN output of the bucket will become an input to the bucket policy. And what's going on behind the scenes is Pulumi is keeping track of the dependencies between your resources so that it knows how to spin things up and down uh as quickly as possible. And it knows like, hey, what needs to be done in what order. So that is the program. Uh in addition to the program, we have the concept of stacks, stacks are essentially an instance of your Pulumi program. Um But you can supply different configuration values for different stacks to spin up. For example, uh like a DEV A Q A and a prod environment in your DEV environment you might want, for example, use uh less EC2 instances and, and or like less powerful uh EC2 instances than you would say in your prod environment. And the way that you can do that is via stack configuration, uh a little bit about Pulumi uh physical architecture. So at the bottom left of this slide, we have our Pulumi program, Pulumi programs can be written in a variety of languages. We have Python, uh We have typescript and javascript. Um But I definitely lean towards typescripts when doing node and that's what we'll be showing today. Uh We also have support for Go uh C# F sharp. We have job support that is in preview. Uh And we also have a YAML option that is used um mainly for like larger organizations that are adopting Poum at scale uh where you might have some folks who are from a traditional operations background uh and would prefer to work in YAML rather than real programming languages. Your Pulumi program is interpreted by the Pulumi engine uh and this and, and the stuff that we'll be showing today, that's the Pulumi uh cli and the Pulumi engine will basically look at what your plumy program wants and, and your state file, which is what you have and it will figure out the difference between those two things. And so it will figure out what needs to be created, uh, updated or deleted. And the way it does that is via a Pulumi provider. So, uh, you know, in this picture, we have the Pulumi Aws provider, we also have a Cober netti provider. Um If you head on over to the Pulumi registry at Pulumi dot com slash registry, uh you can see the full list of Pulumi providers uh that we provide. Uh And so that's, that's where you get those supports for like all all those public clouds and like a long list of uh SAS and uh SAS providers as well. Like we have a git hub provider, a git lab provider, data dog, new relic. Uh you know, you name it, there is probably a provider for it uh so that you can get all the goodness um that Pulumi provides uh with, with a declarative nature to uh manage resources uh in a ton of different services. Um Today, we're gonna be uh focusing a little bit on uh Pulumi insights, which are some new features that we've added uh to Pulumi cloud. Uh So we have a search feature that will allow you to search through your resources uh that can be super helpful uh when it comes to um when it comes to uh trying to find resources. Uh and also you get like. And for most, for many resource types, you get a very convenient link where you can jump into your cloud console. Uh We also have analytics that allow you to um export your data and then enrich it with pretty much anything you can imagine. Uh And then we also have Pulumi A I uh which will be showing momentarily. Uh Before we get to that, I do wanna do a very brief demonstration of how a Plumy program works in case folks are not familiar. So uh I'm going to share my screen right here and I'm gonna shuffle some windows around and I'm going to get my mug off of here so you can focus on the screen. OK? Cool. So what we have here is a blank directory and uh I'm going to initialize a Plum program. That's what the Plumy new command. Uh When I run this command, you can see that we have uh a large number of uh templates starting templates that you can start from. Uh it looks like 212 right now. So I'm gonna do a static website, ews typescript. Cool. We'll give it a project name, encryption and stack name region we want to deploy to and I'll go with us two because that is close enough to me. Uh Again, these are some prompts that are specific to this template uh because it's a static site. And again, all the defaults are fine for what we're what we're showing here. Uh Now you can see that uh an M PM install is running behind the scenes. This output should look familiar to anyone who has uh worked with uh node to any extent. OK. And so now our project has been scaffolded. So what do we have? OK. So we have node modules again. This is, you know, we're using real programming languages. So that is how node uh stores your dependencies. We have this www folder that is going to hold our uh website files uh that is generated by the template. Uh We have a G ignore, it's not particularly interesting. Uh And then uh I'm gonna skip over index TS and come back to it just momentarily. Uh So we have our Pulumi dot Yaml. This is your project configuration. Uh So you may remember that when I was running the Pulumi new command, uh I uh I was prompted for like, for example, the name of the project. And so those, those uh responses to those prompts, they go into Pulumi dot Yaml, which is your uh project configuration. We also have Pulumi dot dev dot YAML. And so this is your stack configuration. Uh If we wanted to uh if we were deploying our static site maybe into uh like one region for DEV and maybe another region for prod, uh we would be able to uh create another stack and another associated configuration file and we would be able to enter a different region in there and then the stack would deploy to a different region. OK. So now on to index dot TS and I'm going to minimize. Uh and is I'm gonna bump it up one more size to make sure. Ok. So this is our index dot TS. This is the P the, the heart of the Pulumi program. Um going on a quick tour of this file. We are importing uh some libraries uh the Pulumi SDK, which we need for like kind of to access values from our config file. Uh We are bringing in the AWS provider. This is what allows us to create AWS resources. And then finally, we are using a plumbing component called the synth folder. And that gives us uh a really simple way to um sync a folder uh to an object store. And then this this particular sync folder uh will cover all three of the major cloud providers. So, uh in this block here, we are pulling values from our uh stack configuration file. So uh it will pull from whichever stack is currently selected. Now, we are only doing one stack here the DEV stack. So it's going to pull from Pulumi dot dev dot YAML. So this is how you get these values here into your program. Next, we're going to create an aws bucket. Uh You can see that we uh knew up an object uh in typescript. The first parameter here. This is our name. Uh This is what identifies the resource within the Pulumi stack. And then after that, we have options that um are specific to uh the type of resource we're spinning up. So uh this block here gives you the website configuration and uh then we can specify our index document which is index dot html in our error document. Um You'll notice that uh because we are using real programming languages, all of the, the tooling that we expect from using from writing other programs uh applies here uh in our ID E. So if we want to specify AC L, uh we can do that and we get uh strongly typed. Believe it's nope, I don't remember what type of AC L is off the top of my head but uh you know, we can hover over it and see. OK, so the AC L is a string. Uh So we get all the typing that uh goodness that comes with typescript uh moving through the file a little bit more. So we're gonna define some more, um some more resources that pertain to the bucket. Uh You'll notice here by the way. So this is our bucket ownership controls and here um one of the inputs right to the bucket, ownership controls uh is the name of the bucket, which um is bucket dot bucket. Uh because this is one of the older aws uh API S and they got more consistent as they uh as they went along. But um here's where we can see that pattern that I showed earlier uh where you have the output of one resource becoming the input of another. Uh So I'm gonna briefly go through the rest of this file. So we create uh we do some access controls and next we create our sync folders that is going to sync the contents of our WWW folder uh with the uh S3 bucket that we created. And then on top of that, we're going to create a cloud front uh distribution because um in our Pulumi templates, uh we've, we've taken some, some pains to make sure that um these are like, you know, if not fully fleshed out production architectures, they are, they are definitely more production like uh than you might get from, from other examples. OK. So we create a cloud front distribution and then finally, um we create what are called stack outputs uh in typescript. We do this with a uh normal export uh statement statement. And we are uh so we just, so what these do is these allow us to um access values that are inside our Plumy program externally. And there are two ways that we would possibly want to do this. Uh one which will be demonstrating shortly is via the uh plume stack output command. Uh So that will allow you to access that value from the command line. The other way that you might use a stack output is via what is called a stack reference. A stack reference uh is um basically allows you to reference these outputs uh from another Pulumi program. So uh if this looks good and we are ready to uh deploy some infrastructure uh clear screen, so you can run the Pulumi up command that is short for update. Yeah, by default, pulling me up will always let you know what it plans to do uh before it actually does anything. Uh So that's what it's doing right now. It is figuring out what uh resources would be created because this is the first time we've run this program and we can take a look at our preview. This looks good. We can select yes to continue. Now, this takes about 2.5 minutes to run. So I will bring you into the future here. So this is what will happen about three minutes and 8, 16 seconds later in my other window. Uh We can see that everything has been created. We get some outputs uh here and uh so let's see. So here's the contents of our www file. It's pretty basic, um pretty basic index file. It's more or less a hello world. Uh So what we can do is we can curl and we'll take the value of Pulumi stack output. Uh Let's use the CD N URL. I think I mistyped that, but I can't exactly see because the you are. Yep, I think I did. So if we curl that URL. Cool, uh we can see that our website is up and running. So, uh and then just one more thing I want to show real quickly is uh that if we make some change, let's change the mini max tt L let's change this to 300 300 200 men and like 400 max. OK. So we've changed something, right? So, what we're gonna demonstrate here is the declarative nature of Pulumi. So if I go Pulumi up again, it's going to give me a preview of what it's going to do. OK. So you can see here, right? It's not going to, even though I'm running the same program again, it is not going to recreate every resource uh that I have to find. So this is what we mean when we say that Pulumi is declarative, you only need to say what it is uh that, that you want for your desired state of your infrastructure. And Pulumi will figure out the diff and uh figure out what steps need to be taken in order to make it. So um we can also go down to this details tab, so we can see exactly what changed and you can see the diff here uh that were the things that I just changed uh in the U I. And if we want to perform this update, we can say yes and Pulumi will do the thing. Hopefully, I've specified valid values for this. And because we have changed that cash behavior, it is possible, uh, that this could take a while to finish running. So, in the interest of time, uh, I will jump to a different window. We'll go back to the original window, which was this, I believe. And it's still doing its thing. So, no relief there. All right, let's go back to the here. All right, I'm gonna let this run, but let's keep it moving. Uh So, uh and by the way, so, and finally, uh you'll be able to tear down all of your infrastructure with the uh Pulumi destroy command. Um It is important to do that so that you do not uh uh incur charges for any infrastructure that might still be running that you meant to tear down. So again, the, the command is Pulumi destroy and that will tear down all infrastructure in the stack. So, uh I believe with that it is time to hand off to Bryce. Bryce. Are you there? Hello? Yes. All right. So, uh I'm Bryce. I'm a, an engineer on uh the Pulumi cloud um offering and I'm actually a developer on this search feature that I'm gonna show you. So I'm really excited to, to show this off and um also very excited to take any um questions or feedback you might have. So please um don't hesitate to drop a note in and chat. Um OK. So basically, so Josh just showed you how to create a Pulumi stack. And um when you, when you do that and you, you do it enough, you, you, you, you often uh a piece of feedback, we, we hear often from customers is that like you end up with so many stacks and so many resources that it actually kind of becomes difficult to keep track of it all. So, um right here, I'm showing you the uh plume cloud dashboard for Pulumi. You can see that we've got almost, we've got 45,000 resources approximately. Um And so a, a natural question that comes up is what are those things? Where did they come from? Are they all still relevant? Should I clean some of them up? Um These are all very natural questions that our customers have. And so that was the motivation behind resource search. We wanted to give you the user the ability to see a bird's eye view of your resources under management and then also be able to dive in and understand more precisely like what, what is all all of this going on behind the scenes? Because when you've got an organ organization of people, dozens or hundreds of folks working on hundreds or thousands of stacks, it's, it's a lot. So we've got this new tab here on the console called resources. And if we click into here um just collapse this to make some space. Uh We can see the resource search interface and right away, um You already have a bit of a, a bird's eye view on things. And so I can see right now that uh the last stack that was updated happened about 20 minutes ago and it looks like my colleague Devin updated his uh his plumy service stack. Um And that, so that's cool. That gives me a, a nice um immediate sort of summary of what's going on. And I can also expand this advanced filtering tab here to see um some aggregate information about um my resources. So I can see at a glance that, oh, this is interesting. I actually have almost 11,000 github issue labels. Um Now I happen to know why that is, but if I were, you know, some uh um a, a manager or someone, I'm sort of curious, uh I might be able to, you know, click into that and explore um a little bit more about what's going on. I can also, you know, if I want to go deeper than just the top three things, I can expand this to uh even um a more complete view of things. So now I can sort of see. All right, I've got a lot of Aws things and I can filter things down to just Aws and then from there I can see, OK, I've got a lot of buckets. Cool. And so this is all just, uh you know, birds eye view and, and filtering and, and aggregating. But then I can also, I can ask questions. So, um maybe I'm uh I'm interested in things that belong to me. My name is Bryce. I know that I, I've got a stack somewhere probably. Um, so I can search for me and then I can filter this to like, OK. So here's, here's my, I know I have got, I got a Bryce test stack and I've got a Bryce stack and I can sort of filter down to, to the stack I'm interested in and I can further refine it. So I can see, you know, how many subnets do I have? Well, I've actually got quite a, quite a few. Um And so this is the idea behind searches is enabling you to really uh explore and, and slice and dice all of the resources you have to be able to answer. Um uh questions like this bogged in. You're asking can you query resources via tags with insights? OK. This is, this is a great question. Um There is a uh there is an undocumented Easter egg um which I can show you and the answer is yes. Um So for example, I can search for, let's see something tag with uh what, what this shows me is anything tagged with, with a stack tag and I can filter that down to. Um Let's see. Does Devin have some tags? Yeah. OK. So I can see that uh Devin has a cluster and a cluster instance in his stack that happened to have a stack, Devin tag. And let me, and that, and to be clear, Bryce is that the, that is the A, an aws tag with the key stack, not, not tags that which you can also apply to Pulumi stack. Correct. Yes. Correct. Um, it, I, I can't log into the AWS console right now. So you'll have to take my word for it. But, um, if we, if we clicked into the resource, which I just did, you can see that it's got um tags on it with stack Devin. Um That is a, a very um common ask that we have from, from users. It's not documented right now because um we're, we're, it's a little buggy and we're, we're working on it. Um But expect to see more um with that in the future. Yeah, it's a nice easy strike. Um Cool. Yeah. So, um this is, this is really cool there, there's a pretty powerful um search syntax here. Um It's, there's a, a summary of it here and then you can, you can click into the documentation to get a more complete view. You can do things like date ranges and ors and negation all that. Um So that's cool. But sometimes you also just want um, well, it, it wouldn't be a feature launch without A I integration with it. So, um uh we also have an assistant that can um help you uh find uh, can help you like craft a particular, uh, uh, query, uh, given this in. So price, could we, could we try that for, um, for the, for the very same tags thing that you, um, that you, uh, just ran? See if we could get an answer to, uh, bo Gun's question. Yeah. Even just by, without even consulting the docks, that would be super rat if this works. Uh, almost it need a little help there. Um We'll work on that. Um, could do something similar like, uh all compute instances in Aws or they caught. So this is showing you you, it's searching by a particular instance type or for Aws as well as an instance type for Azure and, and showing you the, the union of those things. Um So that's, that's handy. Um, just as like a newcomer to, to the syntax. It's a nice way to sort of pick it up and, and learn, um, without needing to spend a ton of time in the docks. This, this is a new feature to me. I never, I either didn't notice the button or had never clicked it. And, uh, I am impressed. Um I can also say directly from personal experience that the, uh the docs on search query are really good and it kind of just worked and I think that figuring out, um, search query syntax because everybody often does it their own way. Um, has been a major pain point in the past and II I think the, the, the Pulumi Cloud team has done a really good job of, of writing good docks here and, and again that A I assist is, wow, I am probably going to be using that like very, very soon. That's, that's awesome. Josh, I'm I'm glad to hear that. Um Yeah, cool and, and, and some, some other things I wanna note um uh all of this as well is, is available through an API um because we, we completely understand that like yes, this interface is nice but things can get you, you take things to the next level when you, you start building automation and tooling around data like this. And so um there's a pretty robust um api that you can query um to, to generate uh to programmatically fetch resources and you know, build all sorts of tooling around it, whatever whatever you want. Um Additionally, um this is uh this is aware of your permissions and so you, you can hear my dog, my, my co presenter over there. I'm sorry. Um It's, this is aware of your user permissions. So um I am able to see all of the or all of the resources in Pulumi because I am an org admin which means that I have access to everything, but it's possible to set up more fine grained permissions. So for example, it's possible if I were a contractor or something to only give me access to the stacks that I need access to. So maybe if I'm Devin and I'm a contractor, I only have access to the Devin stack. If that were the case and I were, I were to load up this resource search, then I would only see the resources that I have access to. Um So this is typically a use case that comes up in large organizations who have um finer grained permissions uh requirements where they don't want everyone to see everything, but it's still valuable to see the things that you have access to. Um Cool. So uh I shared you resource search um spoke about the API permissions. Um And Bryce, we do have a, a question from uh another question. How would A I assist integrate with automation API or is it U I only? Oh, that's a, that's a good question. Um I guess right now it's, it's U I only um if you wanna drop a note in the chat or, or slack about what you have in mind with automation API. That's, that's an interesting use case. Um And uh yeah, I'd, I'd love to hear more about what you have in mind. Um One of the possible case I'll probably bring it in and is like, for example, to download, we have download a CS V here but can we estimate it through API uh Currently? Oh Yeah. So that, that's kind of, yeah, that's what I was gonna get it, get you next is this download CS B thing. Um Yeah. So basically um the, the real value here is in the data and a lot of our users, all of our customers have data warehouses of their own. They've got some B I tools that they use and it's really helpful to be able to see data like this alongside those existing data warehouse solutions. And so um for enterprise customers, yes, you can, you can download all of these results here. Um That is behind an API so you can query that if I, if I filter this. Um And also you, you can notice that as Bryce enters each query, uh the UR I um in the in the browser bar updates. So that it, that's also like a really easy way to uh you know, if you're, if there's some query that you um some query that like, you know, you can figure out how to do through the U I and you want to take that and do it programmatically. Uh you know, the just you could just grab it from, from, from the address bar. Exactly. You, you, you're gonna query basically the same query string. Um And so yeah, I, I can, I can query something, then I can grab all of the, those results in A CS V um in the interest of time, just take my word for it. Uh Once you have that CS V, you can then load it into something like snowflake or, or whatever um tool you you prefer. And from there, you can then join it against whatever data you might have on your side and you can build all sorts of interesting things. You can build a dashboard on top of that. Um Here we've got something kind of showing all different ways to, to slice and dice this. We've got, you know, your resources, your top resource types, um by package, we can, we can see we have a lot of AD BS things. Um Unfortunately, this, this uh this panel is currently broken because some of our data is, is not working this morning. But uh if you have an internal sort of um cost table, uh you can join that against your resources to estimate, you know, how much is each stack costing me per month. Um Or if you have uh an org chart or, or team data, uh you can sort of break this down and understand by department or by team, you know, where your resources are going. Um You can see how fresh things are, how often things are getting updated. Um How out of date some providers are. You can see we've got uh a pretty widespread here just because of how, how many updates we're doing. Um Yeah, that's the idea is, is you can, you can take the underlying data here and marry it to whatever else you have internally that you're, that you're curious about. Um let me just check the chat. That was a great price can integrate with active directory. Um Yeah, so I think the idea there is would be, um, it, it depends on what you're asking. Um, if you're asking about like specifically um logging into the, the Pulumi cloud like web U I. Um, we do have um a skim um integration that would, that, that you could use if you're asking about joining search results against some active directory systems. Um I think you would need to basically get that data into your warehouse and then join it against the, the search. Um I don't know if we cover it, but what does a poem feel like a tour around search? Yeah, that's a great question. Um Basically, uh we, we have this, we would like to do this so you could query from the cli. Um I think there's an issue for this. Uh If you have, let me try to dig that up and if I can't let me try to dig up the issue, um So you can vote on it. Um And I'm very eager to hear anything in terms of how you might expect the results to be rendered, for example, or what you might expect the command line uh user experience to, to look and feel like. But we do want this. Um I think we just kind of need to iron out a little bit of the um the UX around it. Yeah, at at present, it's worth noting that I think at at present there's no Pulumi cloud like specific uh capabilities in the Pulumi cli um other than like it will use Pulumi cloud by default to manage your state file and your secrets. Um price. That was that was awesome. Um I think now is the time that we should maybe show off Pulumi uh A I so I am going to bring my beautiful face back to all you lovely people and I am going to share my screen. Ok, let's get that shared. Ok, cool. Um And I'm going to bring up, bring up. Uh So Pulumi A I uh is reachable at Pulumi dot com slash A I, I'm gonna uh you will see this now appear on your handouts tab, it's just a link to what I'm showing here and I'll make this bigger for you. Ok. So Plume A I uh is free for everyone to use. Um There's a lot of providers in the plume ecosystem. We have 100 and 30 plus as you saw earlier. Uh some of those providers like AWS have over 1000 resources. Each of those resources has, I don't know, 30 configuration properties we'll say on average. Um That's a lot of potential things that people might want to build. Uh And it's really not possible for us to give an example for every one of those. Um So that's where Pulumi A I can come in. Um Now I'm gonna give it a pretty basic query here. I'm gonna go show me how to run engine X as and V CS Fargate task um in the default VPC. OK. So I'm gonna enter a real uh a natural language prompt here. I'm gonna select my language. We're gonna stick with typescript and I'm gonna go generate the program. And so, uh it's going to do a little bit of thinking and uh it's going to start with a reply uh that very often regurgitates my question. Um One of the things I learned as I was like learning about how this stuff works um is that this preamble that it starts actually kind of creates like an internal feedback loop that makes it give um a better answer. OK. So we can see here uh that it's giving us an answer. It's uh using uh the default VPC. It's gonna, it's telling us to use Aws and um the Aws provider. And then we also have this uh AWS X which contains uh some higher level constructs. And by the way, if we wanted to, we could tell it to only use Aws and not Aws uh constructs. And uh it would do that. Um So it, it responds to your, to natural language inputs. Um So it is typing its answer out and then when it is done, we will. OK. So now we're at the export statement. So we're pretty much done. Uh Now let's grab its input now. Oh It should be a I think the the copy uh button doesn't appear until the response is complete. So I'm just gonna if my mouse would cooperate, ah get there. All right, hopefully we're oh, so I'm gonna have to do a little bit of cleanup on this because I did not copy it cleanly that and we also nice that window. OK? So you can see that we have some red squiggly. Um That is to be expected all of these tools. Um They are not going to give you picture perfect exactly what you need. Um Exactly what you need, you know, output. Uh You were, there's gonna be some iteration involved. Josh, I have a couple of questions is everyday jump in the head and say there is, it's a bad version only, it's experimental, just release it but and say there is no integration with ID. And the question is it would be so probably we can figure out where the issues and it did happen, something to vote on it. I do, I do see um now I don't, I don't have any inside information on this, but I do see that like clearly closing that loop is uh something that's desirable. It's also worth noting by the way that um we uh Pulumi A I is also available um from the command line. Um There is uh there's like an NPX version essentially, you can run that will run it from the command line. Uh, and we have a demo video on youtube. Um, Bryce, uh, Bryce or Marina, if you could find that, uh, Plumy A I demo video, um, from, uh youtube, it does show using it from the command line. All right. So we have some red squiggly, right. Um, and there's a couple of things here. So this get default VPC. Um, this is actually in AWS X, Uh, and this security group should be Aws. So let's, uh, go back to the window and we're gonna say, and just let it know, um, get default B PC should use AWS X and the security group resource should, is in AWS, not aws X. It's gonna deal with some, it's gonna do some thinking and there is a copy button, by the way, it just didn't, uh, it just didn't render because the response wasn't complete. And this, by the way is how you want to use these tools when you're writing code. Um, you give them a natural language prompt, they give you a response. Uh If, if that response has things that, uh, that, you know, need to be changed, you just tell uh, the U I tool or the A I tool, excuse me. Um, and it usually will make, there it goes. So you can see here, right? Cons default this line right here, which I'm going to try to copy and wish me luck because again, that copy button only appears on the response is complete. Give me that get over here. Oh, sorry. But you can see though that the important thing here is that this was changed, right? So I told her what was wrong and it adjusted likewise, the security group that is now probably a lot closer to correct. Uh I am going to just hop on over to the editor and not wait for this to response to finish. Um So it, it, again, I'm emulating the changes that the uh that's the tool made. So OK, now we can see that that is now correct. And we can see that this is AWS X. You don't need that. Sure what it's plenty about there. Oh It says it's deprecated. Um So again, we can go back and let the uh the, the program know, for example, that it's deprecated so on and so forth. Um This is again, it's not going, it's not gonna rate all of your infrastructure for you. Picture perfect every time. But what it does do is it gives you an excellent, excellent starting point. That's probably about 80% correct on average. Um And uh can really, really be a huge time saver. There are a ton of things like that I do in my job as far as like writing workshops or blog posts where it's like, OK, I do not remember exactly how to write uh an IM policy to access a secret and that's like, that's where plumier. I really, really shines, especially when it's like, OK, I, you know, I know the right answer when I see it. Uh, I just don't remember exactly how to do it in, like, this particular tool. Yeah, I, I used this to, to reproduce a bug where, like, all of our examples were using Fargate and I, I needed like a specific EC2 thing and it was like, it was so much easier to just ask this thing to tweak some code. And um it, it was great. Yeah. So that is uh Pulumi A I and I definitely encourage folks to check it out. Um It can, it can really, really uh shorten the amount of time that it takes to uh to learn some of this stuff. So uh I think at this point, we are available for any questions uh Folks in the audience, do you have any questions that we can answer for you? Have you used Pulumi A? I have folks in the audience already used it, let us know in the chat. I can only assume from your silence that we have done an amazing job and that everything is perfectly clear. Um Question jo I didn't know if we cover it that way. I was so busy searching for. Um There was a question do you see in the future integrations between A I and other A I tools like Copilot? I again, I don't have any knowledge, I am sure that getting the closing that gap between Pulumi A I, um, and your ID E is something that, that we would be interested in doing. For sure, for sure. Yeah, I just, I think advice, um, probably to open the issue and issues and vote for that. So, uh, it's easier for me to understand priorities and they ask to. Yeah. Um, so I'm gonna keep talking if there are no further questions. Uh But again, if anything comes up, let me know in the chat because, you know, we still have a few more minutes. Uh If you are interested in attending any of our future workshops, uh you can head over to Pulumi dot com slash resources. Uh You can uh see there. Um We also, if you sign up for our newsletter, our newsletter, uh our newsletter uh will keep you advised of any upcoming workshops. I see that we are, someone is asking me how a Plumy podcast uh that has been bandied about. Uh We have definitely discussed it but there are no concrete plans at this time. Um Oh, yes, blew me up. Um Our uh our annual uh event is coming up uh in a few weeks. Uh If um I'm sure that if you go to many pages on Pulumi dot com, you will be able to get all that info uh pretty quickly and Marina has posted the link in the chat uh if you are interested in, if you're getting started with Pulumi. Uh, you can head over to plumy dot com, uh, slash doc slash getting started. We'll give you tutorials of like how to, uh, install everything. Uh, so we have a question about any coming integration from multi cloud for Plumy A I. And also you can, uh, so just to be clear if you ask Pulumi A I A question, uh, it will, uh, it works for any of the providers that we have uh including across all the major public clouds and a huge range of SAS providers. So if you wanted to ask Pulumi A I show me how to set up an EKS cluster and deploy some helm chart onto it. It will give you that answer. Um And also by the way, um that's, that's like one of the best things about Pulumi is that, for example, especially when you're using like crinet, you can both define the cluster uh for, for your cloud of choice and deploy um objects and manifests onto the cluster. Um And that's all orchestrated using the same tool. Um That is definitely one of the places where, where Pulumi uh really, really shines. Uh We have a ton of examples. Uh That's in our examples repo um We are putting in some work by the way to make those examples more accessible um from the registry and like the various pages in the docs. So keep an eye out for that. Uh And you can, uh, in the Pulumi Registry, you can see all of the uh, providers that we have, uh for Aws and then all the other, all the other clouds we support a question. Does Pulumi I support other multi cloud, um, multi cloud and provider or other providers? Yes. Pulumi A I supports every provider uh, that in the plume ecosystem. So you can just as easily they ask it, uh, you know how to set up a new relic dashboard um or like how again, how to deploy an Eks cluster and you know, set up some add on with it that might require a manifest. It, it can do all of those things. It will give you examples for all of that. OK. So if there are no further questions, uh and I will speak slowly as I thank everybody. Uh just in case anything comes up. Um Again, my name is Josh. You can find me on Twitter under my name uh with me is Marina and Bryce. And uh we would love to, we would like to thank you so much for uh choosing to spend time with us today. Um You can catch uh keep up with us on Twitter again. Uh The Pulumi Community Slack is a fantastic resource uh for uh you know, to answer questions. Uh You can watch some of videos of previous workshops and demos and that's all available on youtube at Pulumi TV. Uh And if you want to keep up with the code. Uh that is of course at github dot com slash Pulumi uh on behalf of Bryce and Marina again. Thank you so much for your time and have a lovely day, everybody so long. Thank you, Josh. Thank you Bryce. Thank you everyone for joining.

---
