---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiVision - Pulumi Python Party with Ali Diamond"
title: "PulumiVision - Pulumi Python Party with Ali Diamond"
meta_desc: |
    Join Matty and Ali Diamond (Lacework) for a chaotic livesteam where the two of them will play with some Python coding, talk about weird tech stuff,...
url_slug: pulumivision-pulumi-python-party-ali-diamond
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiVision - Pulumi Python Party with Ali Diamond"
  description: |
    Join Matty and Ali Diamond (Lacework) for a chaotic livesteam where the two of them will play with some Python coding, talk about weird tech stuff, and maybe we'll all learn something. We don't know where this is going to go, but it will be fun!
  sortable_date: 2022-03-18T07:51:41Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/MQOKF1CWYxg
transcript: |
    It's uh, all right. Um Let's see, let's do. And which um yeah, it said that was 16 seconds ago and Twitch. Ok. All right. I'm gonna go into the stream manager real quick so I can look at this and then. Ok. Um, so if you're joining us, uh sorry, it took us a little while. We had some, some problems with re stream and I'm still not sure that I know what I'm doing but uh we are, we are here and uh you're gonna also, I probably doesn't look super fancy right now because we um yeah. Ok. So we have, our chat session is going. Ok? Cool deal. Uh Welcome to um Bloomy Vision and joining me. I have Allie Diamond from LA work and we are gonna screw around with some Python. I don't think we really know what we had decided yet. Um I'm gonna, while you, uh let's wait, what is going on over here? No, I know you get out of here ream studio. Ok. Um The I'm gonna check one thing while I'm doing this. Uh, Allie, I should, I, I have no idea. We just sort of said we're gonna do Python like what's your, what's your take on Python? Like do you like it? Do you know anything about it? Are you awesome at it? I don't even know what. Yeah. Um So I'm hoping that people can see this cause that was really helpful information, but I'm looking. So we said we have three viewers. Hey, viewers can't hear her speak, pump up her mic and O BS or whatever. Ok. So can you hear? Can you hear me? No, no, I know, I know Ellie, you can hear me. Let me um I, I I'm asking the chatter. Ok, I can hear you just fine. I might have Ally on the wrong audio. So give me a sec. Can you hear Allie at all loop back? That's what it's called. I was trying to uh Yes. Ok. Zoom audio is not the right one. That's just me. Oh, I know the problem. Ok. Gotcha. Sorry you're just hearing everyone's just hearing me twice. Um That's ok. I'm gonna fix that. Ok, so we have that and then if we change Zoom audio to Zoom Zoom. Ok. Ally talk now. Hello? Hello? Ok. Hey, Kat, can you hear Ally when K Allie talks now? Hello? Ok. Yes, much better because I actually sent Allie's audio to that. So I heard a really great explanation about like what Allie thinks about Python because she used to love Java and everything like that. And I guess we can ask you to say it again. Um I would be glad to say it again. So I originally started learning how to program using this like application called Alice many Moons ago. Um And that taught me object oriented programming. And then in high school, they were like, it's time to learn Java and I was like, whoa Java, that's sick. And so I was saying that Java will always have a soft spot in my heart. And um you can't tell me otherwise, but Java does have the best documentation I don't care. Um And that is my, my strong opinion and um then when I went to college, they had us writing in Python and I was like, whoa, this is like Java but like easier, of course, you know, it is a language that has its own complexities and the like, but I was just like, wow. Um so I was doing a lot of work in Python for a while in school and like, it's just for me, in my personal opinion, it's just like the perfect language to interview in because it's so word do we do? Like there's, it's, it, it's straightforward and that's why I like Python a lot. So it's crazy. So I, I will not say that I don't like Python. What I don't like about Python is that I don't understand it. Um And, but I also have never really learned Python. I've had to do things with Python and listen to my coworker, two of my coworkers. So Kat Cosgrove and Laura Anna Maria are amazing. Pythonista, Python, whatever, whatever they're very good at Python. And so I just sort of look at their code and go that looks really smart. Um And so background, like for me, so I'm not, I don't come from a software engineering background. I come from an ops background but I have written code but I know Ruby, I like go, I like visual basic, you know, so like a lot of the Python stuff, I just haven't had to use Python in anger or in uh happiness, whatever. Um So this could actually be kind of cool to maybe do a little bit of like a walkthrough. Not, not like Allie teaches Matty Python, but when you're sort of looking at like, how is it accessible and addressable because Python is one of the languages that Pulumi uh expresses itself in and there's a lot of stuff in Python that I get real confused when I'm looking at it. And I'm like, there's so much in denting, you know, like I can't even see anything on my screen anymore because everything got moved over like 12 inches. So I feel like I'm doing something wrong. I mean, that's just part of Python. Um I think that the in, I think indentation and being space senses itive is like kind of stupid, but like I get it. Um OK, so again, I might Python people are gonna be mad at me because I'm probably gonna say this wrong but I, I know that Python is OK. Interpreted. Ok. Someone yell at me in the chat um because it's compiled down to see if I remember correctly. So it needs to be, I'm like, really, I'm trying to walk on so people aren't like, she's so stupid. I'm like, yeah, I am. Thank you all. Um But uh I'm trying to, I'm correct. OK. So Python is interpreted heads. Why spacing is important? Let's go. Oh my God. I can't believe I remember that. I'm like sweating. I'm like, oh my God. Well, and it gives you consistent readability to if there's like, cause like Python's opinionated in the way that it even works which go is like that too but go you've got go fun, right? And everyone's like everybody hates Ghost formatting but everybody loves go fu because it like just makes it work for you. So I think maybe that's part of it for me is like if there was like maybe there is like Python FPT where I'm like, I can type crappy and it will just like fix it for me but it won't because that's how Python knows what you mean. Right. Like, is that correct? Yeah. So yeah, I mean my secret is that if I was using something like sublime, I would just make it an auto adjust and re indent. Yeah. And then it would fix all the indents for me. And I'd be like, oh, ok. That sucks. But it's like, because stuff ends based upon white space, not like blocks with braces and stuff. So, for me, I was sort of like, is this inside this thing or what not? So, I don't know. Um, what's a good, what's a good thing to, to exemplify, um, like we could, we could, we could write a Pulumi program doing Python things and you could tell me why it works the way it does or we could just like do something really stupid ass literally saying the same things I'm saying. I'm like, I know that. Yeah, I feel like I did this stream yesterday with cat. It's just different, right? It's just different hair color, you know, and different opinions. But yeah, you still get to yell about Python. So it's beautiful. Um OK, so uh well, let's, let's do this. This will be fun. Maybe, you know what I was. OK. So I had this idea, let me hear your ideas. So I had this, OK. So many moons ago, I'm gonna tell an internet story. There was like Ariana Grande stay on a Twitter account who like started tweeting. And then uh one day she's like, she's like, oh my mom took my phone away from me blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then on the bottom it says sent from Nintendo three Ds. OK? And then she kept getting her devices taken away from her at one point, she like tweeted from her Nintendo vu and she was like, my, my mom took my three Ds so I had to cheat. And then the final thing that like really blew it up was that she tweeted from her LG smart fridge and everyone was like the like this, this is insane. And so I was like, I kind of want to start tweeting from random things. Like I wanna send a tweet from like at first just to like troll um web through people. I was gonna send a tweet from a Bitcoin miner like not even just any Bitcoin Miner or Bitcoin Miner from 2014. And I was like, this would be really funny. So I need to do it but I have the code. Um Let me see. I should I have the code pulled up right here and I can copy and paste it directly and this is not my code. Um For those who want to know where this code comes from. Um This code is by Daniel. I'm gonna butcher this name. OK? Hold on. You can try and read it too. I'm gonna copy and paste it. Well, you can, you can put it in the Daniel ab Hey, real quick, Kat, are you hearing me in both, both uh both parts of your headphones now they fix it. This is I I will if you're, if you're tuning in late or at all. Um Ream isn't working. Yeah, basically we had this all set up to use the re stream studio and then we neither of us could get in it properly. So at the last minute, I was like, oh, like I haven't even fired up O BS properly for anything for real on this computer. Um So we're throwing O BS together at the very last minute, but we're surviving it. Ok. So, so we've got this uh tweeting from our LG smart fridge. Um Yeah, so I already have the API and the API key and I could just rotate it out anyways. But um I opened a new page if you want to say you're gonna have to do, I think a pip install. Uh oh, because you can't run terminal stuff through this. I can uh I can see your, oh, you just, you can see it. Can you type in it? There you go. Oh, you need permission. Uh There you go. Ok. Now. Wow, what did I just do? Yeah. OK. We're in, I go really late. I'm deleting the entire mile system. Here we go. This is all of to take down Pulumi that's it basically root. Now, Ellie just popped a shell on my laptop is what, what happened? That was, this was a longstanding social engineering hack to get on the live stream because you know what earlier Ellie's like we should just do A VS code, code share to do this. But, but it has to be on your end because I don't code and don't ask me to write a window. Now I see what's going on, shit booked and busy, booked and busy. I got I have places to go and people to see um developer dot Twitter. There we go. Um ok, so this is the code and then here is if you go into the chat, I actually dropped the tutorial that I was looking at in the Twitch Chat. Yeah, got it. Ok. So what I'm gonna do maybe let's, let's be fancy here. Ok, so I'm gonna do this while you're thinking for just one second. Let's do um window capture browser. This was chrome. Uh ok. Oops. Oh, that just got crazy weird. But um after moved to bottom. Ok. So now we can sort of see this is what we're looking at. Ok. So the tutorial which is in the chat. But so we have our uh you know what's funny is, oh, maybe not. Ok, so we have an active, so we have a Twitter account we're gonna use, right? We're using yours. Ok, cool. Uh Yeah, why not? That's fine. Well, you already, you already own my laptop so we might as well own your Twitter account. Um So this, this stuff was already done though, right? Like, yeah, I, so I dropped the code into a new uh if you open vs code. Ok. So we'll go back to, let's ok. So, and then import it says first line import tweety. Oh You put it in the code? Yeah. Um can you see this? No, I'll look at 00 I'm like also you don't see anything. Ok? See this is you're not seeing what I'm seeing. So all I see is in the file explorer. Just see high dot MD and that's the only file that's open but you created there's more stuff in the file system apparently, right? You've done like, so if I do, no, no. Where are you? I'm in a different. Ok. This is I'm really concerned now because I, because again, as you may recall, Allie has unfettered access to my entire file system. Just put, just put this. Uh Wow, this is, this is just I have, you know, I have friends who are infotech people and they are all real mad at me right now and they're disgusted and will never. Ok. Well, here's the file dot Pie. All right. Cool. OK. This is also the part when cat right now is watching and looking at all the squiggles and being like, vs code sucks because it didn't import the thing and it doesn't see it and all that stuff. So it's almost like I know, know what she likes. I imported you did. But it's like I think, are you in? No, we're not in an event or anything, right? This is all, well, where did you install it? Because in streams in streams or in streams slash alley in this, this directory, this directory. Ok. Yeah. Ok. So I don't understand why it doesn't recognize it. So twe because it's not, oh, that's just unknown word. That's a spell check. 00 no, this is fine. This is never mind. This is, this is, yeah, I just, yeah. Ok. We're all fine. We're all good. We're not angry at VS code yet but it will come, I'm always mad at VS code. All right. So now these variables that you're putting in here, you're obviously not gonna put these in clear text because I'm the one who's showing bad security practices on a stream, not you. I mean, I was just gonna do it and regenerate everything. Oh You could do that too. I mean, because otherwise you could put them as environment variables on my own computer, which would be a thing but that's fine. I mean for the, well, the thing is for, for the time that people are watching people could fundamentally be tweeting as you honestly, that actually might be kind of fun. That would be kind of fun because they can't like what, what, what does that api have access to do? Just create tweets, right? It can't delete things, it can't reset your password or anything like that. Uh It only has read only permissions I believe actually uh now look but see you can't see this cause I just did it if you do need to do something that people can't see. Let me know because I can, I can do a uh um a little like block the stream, like I can block it, block the VS code. So if you want to set it as a like export as an environment variable and type that and I'll see it, but everybody won't see it on the stream. So this is the website that I'm currently on. I'm just looking to make sure I have uh we want right access right now and I'm currently in the Twitter A the Twitter api uh and it cancel. I don't know if it's gonna work but we could try it. Uh Helpful dogs. Regenerate. Yes, regenerate. Well, I'm saying like if you set them as a, if you export them as an environment variable, they just pull the environment variable. I can hide this vs code window from the stream while you do that. I am embarrassed to say, I am not exactly sure how to set that up. Um Well, so what's the best programmer? So you would do something like this? We would say export. Oops. Well, you can't see what I'm typing but you'll see it after I or do you, do you see as I'm typing? OK. OK. So it'd be like ally, I'm just gonna, because I don't know what all my environment variables are, but we'd say ally key um equals, you know, OK. You want that? Yeah, that's what I thought and then you call it in the Python program. What I'm saying is this part I'm typing here. You can't see it because you're not seeing the stream. I can throw up a whole screen that just says top secret and they won't see what you're typing and then we'll set them. Ok. So we're gonna do that. No one can see anything you're typing right now. Ally except for me. Ok. Yeah. Well, I'm just saying but for the next couple of minutes so cat doesn't go and tweet as you is what we're trying. That would actually be pretty good. Yeah, so you just need those to OK? And you, you know how to, you know how to get the environment. We have to figure that out how to get at the environment variables. It's I can tell you I, I know a couple of the things. So OK, I'm gonna, do you remember that? OK. We call them Ally Ais and Alley Token, right? So because what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna clear this screen. Oh, the screen is hidden right now. You also need your consumers, right? Or as long as Ally, as long as you remember the names of the environment variables you're creating here. We're good. Um Yeah. Oh Do you need that? Don't watch out for the space. Yeah, you can't have a space in between the equals. Yeah, it's, it's because it's bash or zee uh Secret. Consumer Secret. OK. The other thing is if you do forget I can open a terminal offscreen and just pull history and see what, see what we named him. Ok? So, oh yeah, just put that far in there and then we'll figure we'll, we'll do the um, so anyway, what we're doing here because you're not seeing it for those of you who are watching also, son of a bitch. You know you were hearing Allie Talk just now because the O BS scene that I went to doesn't have um uh add existing Zoom audio, ok? Sorry everybody, now you could hear um ally if she were to talk but what we are doing, we are really professional streamers here and this is really me that's screwing this all up. Um We created uh environment variables that have all these keys, ok? You got the um the last one, right? The OK? So I'm gonna do no, no, wait, wait, wait, I just screwed that up. Uh There we go. And now you can go back. OK? So now we're gonna go ahead and go back to this, ok? So what we're gonna do though, but if we want to be able to get at these environment variables, we need to pull in Os, right? And then the um it's gonna be like it's uh what is it like Os dot Environ? And then, and I know it doesn't have the string around it. I'm just so it should, I think oop. Nope. Too many there. So that should return. Oh, is it not like that? It's not defined. Do you have to ask, um, do you have to source your, oh, wait, it's, oh, no, it's Os environ. Oh, never mind. It's Os Environ dot Get and then it's, 00, no, no, no, you got, I just got too many. It's like that. Ok. So you can go, yeah, we can go do that for the other ones. Loops shit. You just paste it in uh something but ok, I'll just, I, no I didn't do anything. I'm looking, I'm in a different window than I did but it was only part of something so it's fine. Ok. I'm looking at how do I give it? Read, write permissions. Ok. Um App permissions are configured from within your Twitter app settings, Twitter app settings, putting, putting secrets and tweets is next level from putting. Yeah. Um Yeah, I sorry, sorry cat, I, I cat is saying we can't hear Ally right now and we we, we know we got caught up with that. Ok? But I think we're ok. So you've got your oh can you hear me now? I think they could, they've been able to hear you for a while. It was when I flipped because the, the secret panel thing was a different scene in O BS that didn't have your audio attached to the scene. So that's why that happened. Um ok, so do do do premium products. Uh ok. But now Kat, what what Allie was saying was if you were able to tweet us her, what would you tweet? So we need to know because we need to put in the value of the tweet that we're gonna tweet. So what should it be Kat? Ok, but keep in mind this tweet is gonna be sent from an ant minor um S five if it works as I expect. Ok. You got that cat Roger that should be third delay. So it's tweeted, it's being tweeted from a crypto, but I have to figure out I'm in the settings right now and so cat would like it to tweet PP poo poo. Yeah, go for it. Ok. So fair enough. This is, this is going on our youtube. All right. So did you know that? Ok, so there's a Tik Talker um Bella Porch and she has a cat and a dog and they're named, one is named PP and the other one's name is Poop. I'm literally not kidding. Ok. Just to be clear this URL down at the bottom that's here in app permission not to be need to be there, right? No, no, no, no, no. I was just sending permissions because I'm trying to read the app permissions right now. Um So how does this, how are we setting the agent like getting the ability to access my tweets? Oh, no, no, but I mean like you're saying it's gonna look like it's coming from an LG smart or whatever. Like we didn't do that yet. We aren't part of the code yet. So if I'm understanding this correctly and following tutorial, the tutorial correctly, which as a tutorial writer, I was just looking at the pictures, um, I, in the, um, Twitter dashboard, it has, um, I can set app details. Um, app name is Bit main ant minor. S five you're not doing in the Python code. It's, it's, it's, it's the application, the Twitter application you created which um right, which we can't show you because this is too much inception of screen too. But if you look at uh if you look at the tutorial, it actually kind of walks you through and has the screenshots specifically. If you look at like app details, I think that they might show that to you app details and the app name Twitter for iphone 12. Oh, got it. I see what you're ok. Hang on. I'm gonna switch over to. Uh so if you see like um again, I know Allie can't see it but it's this word when we set up when we set up the app details, you know, see where it says app name is Twitter for iphone 12. So that's where um Ally would have set the Bitcoin Ant minor thing or Doodle. Yeah, so I guess we should just run it and so so now we we should save it first. Oh Yeah, I don't know if it's gonna work. Ok, cool. And then we just do Python three main or file that pie, right? That should do it, see what happens. Ok, cool. Well, something wasn't happy. All right, unauthorized. So it's a 401 tweet. Ok. Er, is that a permission? The client has not been completed because it locks valid? Ok. So this is kind of what I was worried about that I've been trying to think about, which is I think that the credentials that I've generated only allow for uh read only. And so I, yeah, that won't work because yeah, I wasn't sure. And I'm like looking literally like I'm digging in. Oh, but you're not sure if you can change his permissions or would you have to generate, create a whole new thing? No, I don't think I have to generate a whole new thing because like, so it says create how this tutorial is out of date and that's a little frustrating. Um So I was looking at the website and the keys and tokens and it says it created with read only permissions. And I'm like, how do I change the permission level? Mm Within your Twitter's App page. But where is the Twitter app page? I have some projects, Josh, where you can't see what I'm doing. I'm literally, I know, I know and I'm trying to think about where I have uh because I think I have some bots that I could pull up an app to that I could share and we, I think it's, I'm in a browser that's got, that's logged in as, yeah, I'm not doing that one. That one's logged in as Pulumi. Um we're not gonna play with that, but that could be fun. Um But it's, but let me, let me just see if I can do it over here. Was it, is it app dot What's the, what's the main is like developer do Twitter dot com? Ok. I just wanna see if I can. It says I just need to go into the settings for the app but when I go into view detailed features, elevated features, tweet, look up, manage tweets, tweet cap. No, give me permissions to send a tweet, academic research.

---
