---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Pulumi for Enterprise"
title: "PulumiUP 2022: Pulumi for Enterprise"
meta_desc: |
    Join us as we discuss how Pulumi serves enterprises and organizations with sophisticated security and compliance needs. You will learn what are the...
url_slug: pulumiup-2022-pulumi-enterprise
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "PulumiUP 2022: Pulumi for Enterprise"
  description: |
    Join us as we discuss how Pulumi serves enterprises and organizations with sophisticated security and compliance needs. You will learn what are the most common scaling, access control, security, and compliance concerns of companies adopting Infrastructure as Code, and how the Pulumi Service resolves these concerns. You will also hear a real world case study from an enterprise customer of Pulumi.
  sortable_date: 2022-06-13T01:00:10Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/5-Tw1Yd2H3s
transcript: |
    Hi, everyone. My name is Megan Kochar and I'm a product manager here at Pulumi. Today. I'm gonna be talking to you all about how our enterprises are using. Pulumi and the key functionality that they're leveraging, kind of giving you a bit of info into what our customers tell us and what kind of use cases that they're using. Um I'm gonna wrap up with a demo of one of our, one of these features because no one likes just corporate talking flights. Let's get into it and get our hands dirty. Ok. So let's talk about who these enterprise customers are now. Obviously all, not all of our customers have consented for us to use their name publicly, but we have a subset of customers who have. These are kind of like the key ones that um you might recognize. We're really grateful to work with large enterprises and well established enterprises such as Snowflake, Atlassian Mercedes Benz. Um In addition to the rapidly growing cohort of enterprises around the world who are now depending on Poli's cloud engineering platform. These customers use Pulumi to enable modern cloud transformation, accelerate their developer velocity and adopt the most rigorous security and compliance requirements. We've seen remarkable growth within this cohort. We recently announced that we have 350% year over year growth in the number of enterprise customers that are using lying. So there's a lot to be excited about in this space. Now, let's talk about why enterprises are using plumbing. So we're gonna talk to like a handful of features like maybe 10 features that Pulumi has and give you info about it in the specific context of enterprises. Um multi cloud enterprises are using plume so that they can have consistent and cloud agnostic infrastructures code. So instead of relying on cloud specific definition files, they use plume to manage all modern cloud workloads such as containers, server list and so on. Using one infrastructure as cloud platform across multiple clouds helps to team the complexity of multi cloud hosting. Um It makes it easier to maintain consistent workflows and standard practices across multiple clouds. And it allows our customers to reduce their lock in by having one cloud engineering platform that supports multiple cloud providers. Um Enterprises are more flexible and agile to use the right cloud native service for the job or for whatever tool they need. They don't have to be constrained by what infrastructures code um platform they're using. But the benefits of Pulumi doesn't stop at just the provisioning and managing of resources, whether that's in one or multiple cloud environments, it also extends to deployment. And so enterprises are building their entire C IC B pipeline, um continuous integration and and continuous deployment um with Pulumi baked into the process. And so infrastructure changes can be reviewed, validated, tested um as any application code would be. And some examples of this is you can do code reviews using pull requests on your infrastructure changes. You can use run the code through um linters and static analysis tools. Uh you can use unit in integration tests. So essentially bringing all of the like power and benefit of software engineering to your deployment as well. Um And it all just works for your cloud infrastructure in the same way that it would for your application code which reduces errors, improves security and once again increases like your delivery rate. Um Not to mention your application developers are used to these tools. It's familiar to these processes. Um Instead of having this like bespoke process just for infrastructure and the learning curve that comes along with it. So this is a fan favorite that our enterprise customers like to talk to us about which is policy, this code. So policy code is a way to design and enforce um what you can and can't do within your organization. And you do this through having a series of rules or procedures within the Pulumi Cloud engineering platform. Our policy code tool is called cross guard and cross guard empowers you to use a set of guard rails uh to enforce compliance for resources so that developers in your organizations can provision their own resources and stick to your best practices and ma meet security and compliance. Um Basically the same benefits that we were just talking about in terms of bringing software engineering to your C I CD processes a your policy as code. So you're writing these policies in familiar programming languages um and can manage them as such. So using policy as code, you get to define your business logic in a flexible way. Um And then run these policies on demand. Uh You can have scheduled reports based on the policies and you can also have your deployments gated by these policies. So organization admins can apply these rules to this particular stack um or to the entire organization and these policies are executed as part of your Pulumi deployment. Um And any violation can gate or block that update from proceeding. So with cross guard policies can be defined as advisory, mandatory or disabled. And so in the case, a very common use case that enterprises are using this for is um having a advisory policy for your non production environments, your dev staging test, sandbox, et cetera. Um And then essentially when a developer goes to deploy uh with within these environments, with these policies, they'll receive a warning if the policies have not been met, but the deployment will still carry out. Whereas in production, you can set the policies to mandatory, meaning that the deployment will fail when the policy is not met. And so this is a good the way of educating on company policies without slowing down any developer productivity or like just adding barriers to deploying things. Um I am planning to demo a simple policy code use case um at the end of my presentation. So stay tuned for that. We'll make it fun and interactive and you'll kind of know what I'm talking about in practice. So Pulumi stores metadata about your infrastructure so that it can manage your cloud resources. This metadata is called state. Each stack has its own state and state is how Pulumi knows when and how to create re delete update, et cetera, your cloud resources. You can store your infrastructure state for any cloud and Plumy secure back in which has built in scaling availability, fault tolerance or you can self manage your state yourself. Um Your infrastructure state is encrypted in transit and at rest when state is all in one place, you can take better advantage of stack references, deploy in parallel with concurrent state locking and audit changes or roll back to previous versions of your state. All resource input and output values are recorded as state and are stored in the ploy service or in a file or a plug service provider uh provider that you choose. These raw values are usually just server names, uh configuration settings and so on. But in some cases, however, these values contain sensitive data such as database passwords or service tokens. All plumbing editions offer secret management features and this is something that our enterprises um frequently talk to us about being a value add. If you look in our case study with Snowflake, you'll see that they talk about how they leverage secrets management within plumbing. Um And so our secrets management stores encrypted data using the configuration of cloud resources. This encryption is in addition to the encryption in transit and rest with the state that I described before. This ensures that certain data elements are not shown in plain text, employees, command line interface C I or in our service console. And they're not emitted as plain text in any of our plume formats such as Jason Pluming ensures that secrets are encrypted deeply. So any secrets supplied during the construction of resources, input or output properties remain encrypted. So this might happen, for example, if you provision a cloud managed database such as Aurora my sequel um or a, a service token for your serverless function. And so as these um in the construction of these resources, uh these secrets are encrypted during the plumbing service, you can utilize built-in secrets management um or you can bring your own secrets manager. So we have support for AWS. Uh Well, you can, you can bring your own secrets manager. The common ones that uh are being used by enterprise customers is AWS KMK MS um which is key management service, um Azure uh key vault, Google K, MS and has CORP. It's important to note that your cloud access keys are never uh sent to the pluming hosted back end as all cloud API interaction is done at the ploy client or cli level. Now, let's talk about our back. So another core feature uh our enterprises are utilizing is role based access control. So role based access control may be configured at either the organization level or at the individual stacks within the plume service. If set at organizational level, these stacks inherit the permissions unless they're otherwise overridden. Plumbing service permits using our back or role based access control um within teams and teams allow organization admins to assign a set of stack permissions to a group of users. And these stack permissions can be one of four permission levels. One, there's no permission, the user can't read or write two, they just have read only permission, three, they can read right um to the stack or lastly, they have admin permissions um for that stack. As you can imagine, a, a lot of enterprises are leveraging this to empower them to follow the privilege of the principle of least privilege. Uh And therefore they can ship faster with more confidence. And an example of the use case for this would be that you have all of your developers having access to your uh DEV stack. But in production for whatever workload that may be only your person responsible for DEV ops or on your infrastructure or platform team has the access to actually rewrite or admin access on that stack user identity for the purposes of our back may be backed by any other given identity providers or you can manage it man manually. So something that comes up a lot with our enterprise customers is security. We recently published a security white paper which if you're interested in, you can check out at Pulumi dot com slash security uh and learn more about what we do here, but to kind of touch on some of the cliff notes, um we do not host any servers ourselves. Our architecture follows industry best practices and Pulumi is a certified Aws advanced partner which entails thorough security architecture review and audit with the Aws team. We also perform annual penetration testing of our service and application and maintain an active. So two type two compliance. The Pulumi service has audit logs to help you track the activity of users within an organization. They attempt to answer what the user did when they did it and where this helps in answering these questions. We help in answering these questions by recording all of the users actions and these logs are immutable and makes the activity of members in an organization attributable. The logs uh capture the uni time stamp, the user who invoked the action, the event that took place the source IP of the call, uh the user made our enterprise customers tell us that these logs come in handy when there's an incident with the deployment. Let's say there's, you know, um errors of deployment or a bug was pushed to production or whatever it may be and they need to investigate. And so if you're having like a postmortem of what happened or a retro, um you can basically go back and track what happened and have all of this metadata, audit logs can also support like um compliance requirements that enterprises have to meet whether that's their internal compliance requirements or something that's mandated by larger compliance regimes. Audit logs can be programmatically exported on an automated schedule for enterprises who are on the business critical edition. So you can have your audit logs being exported outside to let's say um an S3 bucket. And so let's talk about access the third um pillar on this slide. So a lot of there's a lot of cloud applications and service providers. And so using single sign on um with Sam L is a way to make it easier for organizations to manage access for their employees. Uh In addition, if an employee leaves, if an employee joins, like all of these things can be done at scale a lot easier than having a bespoke sign up process. The plume service can be configured to work with Sam L 2.0 identity provider um with any 2.0 Samal identity provider. So some common ones here would be user active directory, G suite Octa, et cetera. Um And plumbing service also supports cross domain identity management, um also known as CM 2.0 integration with different identity providers. And the benefit of this is it enables you to synchronize your identity provider with um your Pulumi users, which once again are just things that enterprise you have a lot of users using uh Pulumi take advantage of so that they don't have to manually um update each application and service provider separately. So there's two ways to use the plumbing service one managed, which is definitely the most common um use case or self hosted. The managed environment is highly available and it's hosted across multiple cloud regions and availability zones. It runs in Docker behind an AWS B PC with all the network coms encrypted using TLS and end points are only accessible um using http S there's no connectivity from Pulumi dot com to your cloud environment. Pulumi has none of your cloud credentials which I mentioned previously. Um Your resources are run strictly within your cloud. And lastly, as I mentioned before, plum, the plumbing service handles um robust state and lock management on your behalf. Some of our large enterprise customers have compliance requirements where they need to self host the plume service. And in the self hosted edition, which is available on our business critical edition. Uh the same highly available architecture is available with more control um over your hosting options, your network is isolation, data ownership and identity. So hosting options include public private and hybrid scenarios. Um The self hosted business critical edition does not communicate outside your private network including with gloomy dot com. The client may be run within your private network to eliminate all communication over the internet altogether. OK. The last thing we're gonna talk about before we jump into a demo is the migration tools that are available. So at we understand that cloud engineers and platform teams don't have the luxury of building Greenfield projects for everything more often than not. We're stuck with the impossible task of refactoring and migrating um existing projects to more modern stacks. Um These projects aren't trivial and so we've put a lot of time and effort into making it easier for teams and organizations to bring their infrastructure into a cloud engineering world. And even if you are working on a Greenfield project, uh but you wanna steal components from another project that is maybe in arm or whatnot, you can convert it to Pulumi and to make it a little bit easier to get things up and running. So the like tools that plume is built to be able to migrate uh from other tools into Pulumi um allow for reliable import of existing cloud resources. Um And so these include having arm to Pulumi um cloud formation to Pulumi TTI CRD custom resource um to Pulumi and kneel to plume and terraform to ploy. And so if you are having existing workloads and need to um migrate over to Pulumi, we've done a lot of work in this space that enterprises have leveraged. So now let's get into the fun part. The demo, I just want to hop into a really quick simple demo of how to use policy code. It really just helps us kind of visualize what we're talking about today instead of you having to take my word for it. So, first things, first, I'm just in a demo folder in my computer and I'm going to do two things. I'm gonna create an S3 bucket and then I'm using a plumbing program and then I'm gonna have a policy that essentially uh acts on top of that bucket. And so the first thing we're doing is creating the S3 bucket. So I'm going to make a directory called a bucket because I'm super original. And then from there, we're gonna jump into that bucket uh into that directory. And then um we're gonna run pulling me new, which is how we get a template. So I'm just gonna use a straight out of the box Aws Python template because I like Python and I'm gonna call it pulling me up demo, um which I already have, of course. So let's just call it MO two. Um I'm happy with that description. Uh OK. I'm happy with this region. So while it's doing that, just a quick explanation. So we're now going to create another directory which is just going to be a template, the exact same, the Aws Python template for policy. And then we're gonna run it and see how the policy applies to the bucket. And then I'm going to change the bucket to the um republic or public read um the AC L and so from there, uh it should block the deployment based on that. And obviously, this is like a really simple but like valuable use case in that there's been tons of data breaches from people leaving their three buckets open. So it's um very relevant, I feel even though it's quite simple. So from here, we're making another directory which I'm just gonna call policy because once again, variable names, super original um and jump into that and from here, we can go Pulumi a policy new and we can get the templates for policies. I'm going to grab the Aws Python one again. And so the next thing we need to do is go back to our S 30 Becket directory and do a, you can do plu me up with the policy or you can also use plumy preview to see what would would happen. Um So I'm just gonna do a preview so we can see. All right. So jump back over here, let me preview and then we're gonna do dash dash policy pack and then the directory to what we just created. Ok. So as you'll see we get a link of um of what we're creating. So we're creating a stack, right? Which is called demo two, demo two. So I made my project my stack the same thing very intuitive and then an S3 bucket which is being created. Um And then as you can see, there's a policy pack being run on it all as well. So I am gonna pull me up this so that we have something to see in the console. Yeah. Ok. So yes, I want to perform this action, ok? So now I have my bucket name, it's been created and the policy has been applied. So if we want, we can hop into this on the new service and you can essentially see what happened, what was created. And so now we need to go into the code and modify our bucket to have AC L the public rate, ok? And it should be that simple control or save and we're gonna hop back up and I'll do a preview. So as you can see it blocks the deployment, open it up as well, just so you can see the same behavior. Um And it says there's this mandatory policy where you can have no public read. Uh And so with that templated policy that we created earlier, uh basically this is defined if the AC L is public read or public read, right? You cannot deploy it and there, there you have it. That is the magic of it. All. The only other cool thing to check out is my preview of that on the service. And so as you can see, it says the preview failed, it gives me the reason and then I can also see the dip so I can see that it went from being private, which was like an inherent setting to public read. All right, I hope that put everything into context. All right, we've talked about a lot of content today in a short period of time. And so in conclusion, enterprises around the world are using the Pulumi cloud engineering platform to enable um innovation within their developer space to increase the velocity at which they're releasing features and to adopt the best security and compliance, best practices. Now, I hope that you've learned something today and I hope you had fun doing the demo with me. And most importantly, I am excited to see what you build with Pulumi. Thanks so much.

---
