---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2021: Build Panel Discussion"
title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2021: Build Panel Discussion"
meta_desc: |
    Join Wesley Faulkner, Ellen Körbes, Rizel Scarlett, Paul Czarkowski as they discuss a variety of topics related to Cloud Engineering.
url_slug: cloud-engineering-summit-2021-build-panel-discussion
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Cloud Engineering Summit 2021: Build Panel Discussion"
  description: |
    Join Wesley Faulkner, Ellen Körbes, Rizel Scarlett, Paul Czarkowski as they discuss a variety of topics related to Cloud Engineering.
  sortable_date: 2021-10-20T23:00:16Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/uZgnf1iXi6w
transcript: |
    Oh, that was fancy. We got a little countdown on everything. Hi. Uh Welcome to this uh build panel at the Cloud Engineering Summit. My name is Paul Chikos and I am honored to be in the virtual presence of this amazing group of experts. How about we all take a moment to introduce ourselves? Uh Let's start with Rozelle. Yeah, sure. So, like you said, my name is Roselle. I currently work at github as a junior developer advocate. Um You can follow me on black girl bits. I'm probably gonna follow back and interact with you. So definitely follow me there. Um I have like a background in software engineering, mostly front end. So I wouldn't call myself an expert in cloud development, but I'm excited to learn from the other panelists. Awesome. And uh Wesley tell us a little bit about yourself. Sure. My name is Wesley Faulkner. I'm currently the head of community at a company called Single Store. They're a database company that is unifying both column and roto that's whole plug. Uh And uh I've been there for about three months, but before that, I was a developer advocate for a company named Daily doing web RT C work. And even before that, I was a developer advocate and a technical community manager for Mango DB. Uh So my, my foot in the cloud has been in several different buckets. Uh If, if that's, if that's where we're using rain analogies. Uh And I'm also on Twitter, I'm Wesley 83 there as on many services. And so please reach out to me as well because I love talking to people. Now Wesley, I was told that you also hold the world record for the number the most amount of soup dumplings eaten in an hour. Is that true? Um I don't know where that information came from. Um I've hired a scrubbing agency to remove that from the internet. So um it should not be found anymore. Uh but that that is not true and so I will, like I said, publicly deny it uh officially. Ok. Well, we we can just cut that in editing, ok, guys. Alright. I've got confirmation. We're cutting editing Ellen finally. Uh last but not least. Yeah, I'm Alan. Um I work at Tilt um head of product, the tilt um tilt is a development environment as code solution basically. Um And I've been in the Cuber developer experience side of things for, I don't know, quite a few years now. I used to do that for first. So uh some of you might recognize me from talks and whatever some of you might recognize me from like Twitter shit posting. Um We were talking earlier about the bios and then people were asking, OK, how far back should I go in the bio? And then there were some jokes there. So I would just like to clarify that my parents met uh when they were working in the state data processing company that existed in Brazil at the time. And according to my mom, my father would type a little bit and then look at her and then type a little bit and then look at her and yeah, and long story short, I'm here now. Well, I'm glad that he touched a little bit and looked at her and then touched a little bit more because it brought something wonderful into this world. You're too kind and stop it. I guess we should uh get started. And one of the things I thought about uh we're at this thing called the Cloud Engineering Summit. And I'm gonna be a little bit honest and say, I don't even really fully understand what a cloud engineer is like. I come from an off background. And so I do know that from like from experience that the practical difference between say ac admin and a devs engineer is about $100,000 a year. But I don't know if that's the same for software engineer or C and cloud engineer or if there's a little bit more in depth and uh a little bit more to it that, that's a question sort of, I will jump on that one. I would say that the difference is uh there's several different specialties and several different varieties. And so, um being able to orchestrate different types of environments based on your needs and wants can be very custom targeted for, for even verticals. Like if you're in finance, if you're in uh a place where you're dealing with extremely highly regulate, regulated industries, it's, it's a variety variety of different things. But I would say a cloud engineer is someone who is more infra uh versed on how the infrastructure is set up and how it's orchestrated and how it's maintained. And so, uh there's a lot more of like getting what the requirements are and making sure that it, it works the best as possible, but also being able to troubleshoot different specific types of environments but have them look almost the same depending on your needs. Yeah, I would agree with you. I mean, I have a background in software engineering and I've like played around with Aws and Kubernetes a little bit, but I wouldn't say like, I understand every single thing that's going on and why I'm doing it. And I'm not like provision and maintaining some of these things. I sometimes had to do those because I like worked at startups and, you know, there was nobody else to like, set up a Dynamo DB table, but I don't think I had, have enough like knowledge and background. So there is there is a big difference to me. Yeah, I to me it's a bit like for example, you have a game engine developer is that a software engineer? I think whatever the title we're talking about is a specialization of software engineering. And sometimes even you can be working on the thing and not for example, you can be working on cloud stuff but you're not a cloud engineer, for example, maybe you're doing something and all the cloud stuff is abstracted away and all you have to do is whatever thing you are a specialist on and you don't really know what you're doing even though you are doing effectively cloud development. So two fa do I, am I a security engineer now? Absolutely. You're now the security engineer and you're now responsible for the security of the entire site going forward. That's just, that's how it works. I I will watch for you on linkedin for that. OK. Thanks. So I guess that's probably a really good point. It feels like we're seeing a lot more of like the, you know, the concept of like that full stack engineer that does everything and you know, maybe that is one person wearing many hats, maybe it's like the line blurring between like what is infrastructure code, what's app code and like even like what's uh like application life cycle with like C I CD and G ops and stuff like that. So that line appears to be getting blurry. Like, is, is, is that accurate? And if it is, do you'll see it as a good thing or do we, can we take it too far or not far enough? I think that I, it's, I've seen you come off of me, Ellen so you can jump in. Um, but I think that maybe it's getting a little blurry but I don't know if that's a good thing because I don't think that everyone should, everyone can't be a generalist or good at every single thing. So it almost doesn't make sense. It's good to like have like that extra knowledge to be able to like dive in if something's broken, you know how to like try to like noodle your way around there. But I don't think that like all software engineers should be doing infrastructure development and all infrastructure engineers should be doing app development. Um because I don't think things will look great. Like that's like a back end developer doing CS S that's, that's not gonna look as great as we hope would. It would. Yeah, I, I guess I have strong opinions on this. Um So at my job, we, what we do is basically abstract away uh puberty and microservices complications so that people can do what their actual job is. And that's kind of our goal. But also from the companies we work with, for example, sometimes uh people are oh doing acts with Cubers is hard and then we go like, oh we can add a few buttons here so that uh you just click a button and then Cubers does the thing and then we bring it back to them and then they're like, no, no, no, no, no. The developers should not click on anything. Cubers. They should just write their code. Don't let them touch cubers. So I, I feel like what I see is a very strong push towards let's keep it separate because when we try to mix it up, everyone is confused and I know this opinion is not popular in many circles. But what I can see like put on the, put the feet on the ground and in the actual people working that day to day, uh definitely the more you try to mix disciplines, the more messy it is. So what I would say is have someone who really knows all the cloud stuff, they set it up, they create the automation, the abstractions. Um And then like, oh yeah, you're a front end developer, a backend developer, a security engineer or whatever. Well, maybe security is different. But um all the other developers should like be really good at your thing and then let the person who's doing the thing be really good at their thing. I, I have to say it kind of reminds me of uh I, I did, I left this out of my bio because, you know, we we're constrained on time. But uh I used to for about a decade, I was a social media manager, like in the very beginning of when social was a thing for companies to start actually doing a live channel, right? That this was on uh a live journal. This is friends actually, I think so a little bit later. Yeah, but when, when social media marketing was basically, can you post the Facebook? That's basically what it was. And then it went into once you past on post on Facebook, you have to like attach an image. So now you have to do a little like image editing and then you have to do video because video is gonna scale and that's why we're gonna reach people because that's better. So you have to do video editing and then, oh we need to do metrics, you need to make sure to see if it's working. And so you need to do some analytics and, and do some analytics and tied to that. Oh But you know, animated gifts are really good too. So you need to do that. Oh And we need to do um some uh some, some overlays and some compositing in order to make sure that all the other stuff kind of like really comes together and then, oh we need to do some like a BM like some um uh account based marketing. So you need to target to make sure our message goes to specific places Oh, and then we also need to buy some ads. And so we need to do some ad targeting on top of that to make sure that it, it, it just kept growing and growing and growing as the market became more sophisticated. And then, then we started having more tools to actually target the thing that we're trying to do. And then we had some automation that was brought in to help make it so that you can just post once and it goes everywhere. Um So I think there are positions where you want someone to kind of try to do everything. It, it may not be the best, but it's better than not doing it at all. But uh as you go grow into more specialized and more um bigger budget and you, you've gotten the all the, the low hanging fruit is gone and you're trying to do optimizations, you're gonna need specializations in every little thing in order to really not just leverage what your, what your um that that specific thing, what your advantage is and that one platform. But you also need to make sure that for whatever you're doing that not just the defaults of what you think is good, but just really tweaking it, doing the testing, look at the numbers and really fine tuning that knob to get it right. But also it's good from uh like an employee employer relationship to realize that um when uh talking about the analogy of social media, um those roles like entry level, social media roles and they want you to do everything. If the employer is not really educated on all the nuance into what our role is, then us in the field will be undervalued because they won't understand all of the things that are on our plates and that we're responsible for or also how much better and worse it can go. Like there's a huge variability on how you execute. You can make it just work or you could make it like optimized for like your, your bills to be lower or like your down time to be shorter um or um your replication uh in different regions to, to, to, to be optimized for where your data lives as opposed to where it's access to, to cold storage to like life management of where things are. You know, there's, there's whole kinds of tier that you can do and it's very complicated and it is getting simpler because it's allowing one person to do a lot of big different things by trusting in some of this infrastructure. But um as you get bigger, there's gonna be more uh nuance. Uh And even if you see like these large companies that have security breaches because they don't have people specializing in security, they check a couple of boxes and they think, hey, I'm good the with more, more users, more visibility, uh your target becomes bigger. And so, and that's gonna be for every link in the chain. So uh yes, it's good that that things are getting more complicated. But yes, as you get bigger, you should, in my opinion become a little bit more specialized, right? So I feel like, oh, go ahead. So, yeah, let me, let me pick up something that Bosley said. Um I think it's important for people to realize that. Well, like he said, at different scales, things are different. So for example, you have a startup, it's like five people. Yeah, you're gonna have to do everything or, you know, things that it feels like everything because there's no, no other way. But the thing is you're not gonna do a great job at any of them. And when your company grows to 50 people, uh people are gonna spend a lot of time fixing all the things you didn't do very well and that's fine, that's normal. Um But then the thing is at that scale, you shouldn't be looking for more people who can do everything just like the the person who wasn't the five people startup did. Uh Now you're looking for experts and then uh it's important to have the, you know, principal senior staff director of something, something to have like one person who actually is familiar with the whole field to coordinate all the experts. So that's important. But if you try and get that person, the senior some director, blah, blah, blah to, to actually do all the things that person is gonna go. Absolutely. Like, yeah, their head's gonna explode because it's too much. So at, at, at one point, the person who knows everything should do everything because there's no other alternative later, that person is gonna stop doing, the thing is gonna start coordinating and letting the people who actually understand all the details, do their jobs. So in, I guess in the olden days we would often like at the enterprise level, call that person, the enterprise architect is there like a like a cloud architect type role or position that would be different enough from that to be its own thing. Uh Or is that even something we don't necessarily even need now uh like a dedicated like architect type role? I think at that level, the person should like whoever is in that position should be up to date on whatever the industry is. So if you're there something something architect in 2021 you need to know cloud stuff. That's my my take. If you don't, then you probably should not be in that position. I've talked a lot. So I'm trying like to hog the mic but I'll just say one little thing. Um uh What you're saying makes sense in terms of the skill, but not necessarily the title titles come and go and they just get made up. Uh What's most important is the skill set uh over whatever you call it. So um depending on like we mentioned the scale of the company, you, you might have all the things. Um but as you get bigger, um you actually might need more like AAA specific cloud architect for each cloud maybe or something. I don't know. Um But uh yeah, the the the the skill is the big top line, not necessarily the title, right? And then from the like the difference between like infrastructure and application focus like developers, like, you know, in the past, they were super distinct, we kind of merged them together with de Ops, we kind of split them out a little bit more with SRE uh and with some other things like, where do you all feel like that fits? Is it was, it was, it was it too far when like every Dev team had their own Dev op or is it too far when we have a separate Devs team? Like, how do you all feel like that sort of stuff uh should work in a, in a healthy medium size environment? I don't think it's too far to have a DEV ops team that's dedicated to a software engineering team. Um Like I mentioned already, I've been on in startups where like, we didn't have that because we weren't at that level yet. So it was kind of just me like putting up lambdas and being like, oh, I hope this is right. Uh And I mean, nothing, nothing broke and I think everything's fine, but it would have been great to have a Dev Ops team to make sure everything was going very smoothly. Um Even for like releases that we did, they were so crazy. Like we would like do releases at like 9:10 p.m. and like it would be very manual because none of us really had those skills. So looking back, if I, if we had a Dev Ops team, and if we like grew to that point where we could have one, I think that would have been very helpful, we would have been able to like move faster and understand um like how to optimize everything. So cloud engineers dev ops whatever if you have like a team of back end, front end and quote unquote full stack developers, like I think a DEV ops team is definitely beneficial. I I think there's a, when we look at the, well, let's call, it says admin like way going to the roots and then what we have nowadays, I think the main difference is like back then the developer was separate from whoever would put things in production. So I would, here's my binary. Now you throw, you know, shoot it into the cloud with a cannon. I don't know how it works. Um And so because of that, the teams are separate, right? And now people went into UPS and I think it went too far into wanting every developer to understand the infrastructure. I think that, to me, that's completely wrong. And you know, the experience I have seen things in practice reflects that. But II, I think people are arguing, people argue a lot about should developers know all the stuff, et cetera. And to me what I see the most interesting in this, this shift is all the automation. So before you would like, the developer would give the ops person uh an artifact and OK, now I'll put it there. Now, um the developer gives that artifact to a system that the ops person has built. And then that system puts the artifact um in production. That is different. Like the developer having the mechanism to put things in production is different than the developer understanding all the info behind it. So to me, it's a matter what DEV ops brought compared to before that was good to me is automation is good tooling and machinery and abstract. That's my opinion. So I I would not say a developer needs to know Infra. I would not say a developer should know infra. Of course, if you want it cool, but we need to have specialized people who know about the Infra. And then developers can directly interact with that mechanism without needing a person to handhold, but they should not. It's like I can drive a car. I have no idea how a car works basically to make ops is the car, right? And at the same time, if that car broke down. Uh, even if you knew a little bit enough, how much is it worth your time to sit there and try to fix it. It's better to hand it off to an expert. Uh, someone who lives and breathes it every day rather than you getting up to speed cracking open the manual and saying I can probably fix it if given enough time, but your time is gonna be more valuable spent on doing the thing that you're best at rather than doing the thing that even though you have the skill and knowledge to figure it out. Why, why? Yeah. Yeah, that, that's an interesting analogy. I immediately thought of, um, like roadside assistance, like your car breaks down, you know, you call roadside assistants, they show up and they kind of have a limited things, number of things they can troubleshoot before they'll, like, put the car on a truck and take it elsewhere. And I feel like there's probably a, an, a super interesting analogy there with like how you handle, like on call and things like that where, you know, the developer absolutely doesn't need to know how to fix the car, but they might need to know how to do, like some of the smaller, like, uh, like more well known troubleshooting kind of things. Yeah, I know the problem is the engine and not the tire kind of thing. Exactly. Yeah. So, uh, Ellen, you kind of touched on this a little bit earlier, but like how comfortable should say a web developer be with Kubernetes. Like not at all. Like they should never see the Yamal involved in making that work or should they be intimately involved in it? I mean, I feel like you kind of partially already answered this, but I also feel like you kind of have a lot more uh answer left in you. OK. Um Yeah, my ideal scenario would be Cuber Nati is the operating system. I don't know how Bluetooth drivers work on my computer. I don't wanna know, I don't care, just make it so that I click a button and it works to me. Kubernetes and all of in should be like that. Um Someone sets it up, someone who knows what they're doing, who's like has the skills, everyone else is a consumer. They don't know, they don't care if something breaks either the thing, fix it, fixes itself because, you know, self healing mechanisms, et cetera that there's a whole topic there. Um Or someone else fixes it. I, I don't, I don't think anyone whose job is something, something, for example, or something, something cloud. Anyone whose job is not that should have to know or care about it. Yeah, I agree from a developer point of view. If something's broken in Kubernetes or Docker or something like that, I just want to be able to see the logs and go tell someone like, hey, um this is broken I need help you fix it because I don't want to spend my day um fixing that part when that's not part of my ticket, my ticket is to like make a button work or something like that. So, yeah, I, I wanna be able to use like Docker and stuff like that, maybe to do a deploy, be able to read the logs if something's broken. Like you guys were saying with the car analogy knowing like, OK, my horn is broken, my engine is broken, whatever it is. But I don't know, like under the hood why it's broken or what to do with that. And I prefer to be at that level. Yeah, it's cumulative should be acting like the operating system, you put it on there, it should run and it should do it, the thing it's supposed to do as long as it's supporting the program and allocating resources as it needs to. Um, you shouldn't have to worry about it. So it feels like we're at this spot where we should, we still need to have people with distinct skill sets, but the more context they have about what's going on the better. And so it's not that they need to be able to do, but if they know and understand a little bit, it'll make them a lot more functional in the, in the overall structure of things. Um How do we, how do we kind of make sure that we balance that so we don't end up just making, just going back to like, everyone needs to know everything, go back to doing the whole skills creep where we need more, more, more and more like senior people because we're like outs skilling um being able to bring people in and train them up. How do we, how do we stop ourselves from doing that? So we can still provide like an entry level for junior people to come in and be able to like really contribute meaningfully without spending three years learning how your particular weird way of doing things works. I, I gotta say that's a, to me it's a false economy. You can do both. Um I one thing about technology, like if you just look from when I started to where, where I ended up, the pie just gets bigger in terms of the, the amount of jobs. So it's not thinking that it's gonna go totally careening to the point where like, no one could get started because it's just uh you have to be so senior I think for every little thing it can be tiered and there's a, there's an entry path and some of it could be just like someone starting almost doing pure automation, they just hit the button and let it go. And as they find a thing that they like, they can specialize and kind of like strip away those layers until you get towards the bottom. Um Ultimately, we're all working on computers, right? You have memory, you have storage and you have like um like some sort of engine that runs the operations like ac pu and once you, I mean, if you start there, you can, you can keep piling things on. Um And so someone could say, oh well, I can do code optimization and someone says, oh I can do it in C++ and someone can say, oh I can do it in assembly and then someone I can do it in machine code. I mean, there you can keep going lower, but at the same time, you can still go up the stack. And so um I, I don't, I think it's, it's, it's just because it's getting like more complex and there are more jobs, there still is gonna be an entry way for everyone because there are, there's gonna be ways that the pie is gonna grow where if you find your niche, you're still gonna be able to get closer to the core if you're starting from further outside of the circle. That's just my opinion. Yeah. And I was very passionate about hiring entry level people. I agree with you. Like I don't, I don't see why you can't hire them. I understand that like the, the needs are going to get more and more complex, but like you're saying, everyone will eventually grow up to that point. Um I think to me simply hiring a senior person for that role and then also like um very quickly after hiring an entry level person so they can work with them and kind of like grow, get to that spot and then do that same cycle again, is maybe a good solution of like making sure that the entry level person is not um feeling like they're underwater, but then also making sure that you're not too top heavy as and as a team or like um a hierarchy. I think if you do that, it should level out because the entry level person is learning, the higher up person is continuing to grow higher and higher and you just keep doing that over and over again. So what I'm gonna say now is basically a pitch. So I'm not gonna say the name of my company in this segment, but it's like what we believe in kind of a thing. So like if you go back a few decades, can you be a software developer if you can't write machine code? That was a real question. And the answer was, well, here's assembly. You don't need to know machine code anymore. And then a few years later, can you be a software engineer if you can't write assembly and well, OK. More, more tooling. Uh Give me another language. Uh a few years later. Oh Yeah, this thing is so complicated. Here you go. Here's an ID. Um More stuff. OK. Now your ID can do magic and so it goes and to me the difference between there's so much cloud stuff to learn, we can't bombard people quick enough because it's too complicated. We can only hire seniors because juniors don't know. The first thing about this, the answer to that to me another layer of abstraction, more tooling. Um So my company does tooling company I worked at before the tooling before that I was writing tooling internally for a company. And before that, I was like working on tools and complaining that we didn't have all the tooling that then I went on to write in the years after. So um I, I think, oh Cuber's is too complicated. Like we, we hired the, the, I don't know, web developer doesn't know Cubers, they can't work here. No, just abstract cubers away. Um That was not a reality a couple of years ago. Uh maybe, but right now it is um many, you don't need to deal with the intricacies of Cubers anymore to be effective as a front end or like um you know, the API engineer or et cetera. Uh So if you don't want to do it, don't. And it's basically the responsibility of whoever is setting up those systems and in larger companies to, to use the the right uh ways the right tools, right machinery. So that uh you know, that all the junior people who come in can be effective at the things they know without having to, you know, relearn uh all the codes of the 68,000 processor, for example. And uh just to piggyback off that, that's a really good point. The tooling helps make this more accessible. But we are also in a place where the education is becoming more accessible. You had to have a graduate level degree in order to work on computers. Then it moved into, you can just have like a bachelor's like a CS degree and you can go and get started and then uh we have coding boot camps and then we have like free code camp for instance that you can just be able to start teaching yourself this with youtube videos and hacking things uh online or going to a hackathon. Um The, the entry level to, to the information is, is also becoming way more accessible. So if you look at the trends, the trends are that there are gonna be more entry level jobs or they're also gonna be people who are gonna be more qualified because they're able to access their certificates or certifications, uh like all the stuff that they need and be able to do it all themselves um for nearly free or close to, close to um close to free as possible. So, speaking of abstractions, um you know, we're often either building abstractions or we're using someone else's abstractions, right? Usually both on top of each other. How, how like is there a way to tell when you're at that sweet spot of abstraction and when, and also like, how do you know when you've gone too far and, and where have we not gone far enough? Just give me, just blast me about abstractions and like your thoughts on where we're at with them, if we're doing it right? If we're way off, I would say money. Um, are you losing a lot of money? Like, OK, you can only, let's say you can only hire senior people. Now, senior developers are extremely expensive. They're very hard to find too. So like getting a senior person in the door costs you a lot to find them, it costs you a lot to keep them next year. They're gonna do the next Chinese thing. You need to spend it all. Again, junior people are a lot easier. A lot of junior people, they just want a job doing interesting things. You can find a lot more of them. So, but they don't know all the things. Um and we kind of know the solution that when something is too complicated, build something uh abstracted away. So it, to me it's a matter of money, like at what point did um did it become the case that it was actually cheaper to have all the tooling do the stuff uh than it was to hire only qualified people that could do it without the tooling. So to me, money speaks, um it's like look at how much it costs, look at how much it would cost to have a solution. And, um, yeah, that's, that's what I think Wesley, you can go ahead because I'm not sure I have an opinion on this. My, I was thinking like, um, we're talking about complexity but we're also thinking about when everything's automated, you click a button and then it goes down a whole chain and if you don't know what it touches or how it interacts and something goes wrong, if you automate it to the point where you don't know where problems are happening or what's can cause them and you can't like, dig deep enough to actually get to the heart of it. That's, that's something that means that you've probably over automated. Um when, when you click the button and it doesn't do the thing and then you're like, I don't know why it's not doing the thing. Um That probably is where you've gone too far. Um And you haven't, sorry, go ahead. I have, if the whole thing went and it broke and you don't know where it broke, you automate it wrongly because you need to have visibility through the automation process. So whoever wrote that automation did a bad job, right? If you automated that person's job away and you're like, hey, everything works, we don't need you anymore. Like everything works. So, and, and like when it does break and then you don't have someone there to like actually be able to have that knowledge to order to take it apart or to reengineer it or to fix it then. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, I feel that that's a real thing. Like you, you, you use a new abstraction and then the, I guess the default way to think from a business perspective is great. We can fire all these people that used to have to know this stuff. But the reality is like at least a couple of like layers of abstraction deep. You still need to have a good grounding in it. Like even doing like Kubernetes stuff, even if you're using something on top of Kubernetes, you still need to, at some point be able to troubleshoot and discover when, when like slow I ops happen. Right. Yeah. Unfortunately, it's even harder because that's not something that's easily exposed to you. It's uh sometimes like people think everything's going right because nothing goes wrong. And so they, when you stop using an umbrella because you're no longer getting wet and then you decide that you're like, oh, things are going great. We don't need this anymore and all the problems happen when you get rid of those people who've been holding back that tide and, and all those and making sure that all these fixes are happening and you just haven't heard about them because nothing has broken because they've been doing a really good job. Right. Right. It's like, it's like a spring if you just throw out all your, you know, cold weather gear and then get surprised when winter comes back around. I, I think it's like if you create the automatic machine that does your job, you've automated yourself out of a job. But the next step of that is you automated yourself out of a job and you got yourself a job as a Paul automatic consultant. Yes. And you have to file bugs like this joke is not corny enough. Please resubmit. Cool. Right. Um uh We're getting close to time. Does anyone have, have we, have we not talked about something that like is burning inside of you that you really need to like, just get out there and talk about any final words of wisdom, pouting goodbyes. I, oh, you're a mute. No, you're gonna say something about that. Oh I was gonna say the only thing I wanted to talk about is the question of like, who should touch production systems. I was curious about that because I, like, I wanna touch production systems. Like, how else am I gonna know? Like, what broke, what went wrong? Um Especially if like sometimes something works locally for me, um or on staging and all that, but on production it doesn't. So I wanna be able to dive in. So I'm curious about y'all's opinion on that. I would say if it works in development and it doesn't work in production, you probably don't have a very good development environment. True. Um Of course, not always, but I see that a lot. Um And I think more importantly and this is like an opinion. Um I think more important than a developer having access to production is a developer having fast feedback towards what they're doing. So you don't like, OK, sometimes you do stuff and you're only gonna find out if it works in production, no chance to replicate. And sometimes that's the case, it's the case, a lot less than most people think. Uh In my opinion, there's a lot you can replicate uh in development environments. And then I think the important part is uh for example, um and I'm going very close again to doing a sales pitch, but I'll try to hold myself back. Um For example, you are working on a service that depends on another service. You spin up both locally on your machine, you make a change, it looks good, you push the commit, uh it goes into Cubers and it's broken because it runs on local hosts. It doesn't run on Cubers. Um If you can make a change to your code and it syncs live in half a second with your development environment, your development environment is cuna it has the same config the same policies, the same everything that your development environment does. You can see that instantly in the blink of an eye, whether it worked or not. And when it goes into production, it's very likely that the results you saw in development are gonna be the same in production unless of course, it's one of those exceptions that for example, if you depend on high traffic to know if a thing works, you're not gonna have as much traffic in development. But if it's like, does the thing work or not, like, are they config? Right? Do things mesh well with each other, there is a lot you can do in development with instant, like near instant feedback. Um And I think a lot of people don't realize that they can have a really good environment and then you end up with all sorts of trouble like people developing local hosts and then it doesn't work. You're not wrong. I feel like some of my develop viable te sucks. Yeah. Yeah. Simulation like you were mentioning before is, is something that it can help with low testing and some of those variables that you can't do in like staging. But also I think if you are, if you're a developer and you are pushing to production on your own with great power comes a great responsibility. Expect like something goes wrong. You're on the hook on it, you're, you're in that team working to make sure that's done. Uh And you, it's your, it's your, it's the burden on you to like get everyone in the loop and to make sure that you monitor that. And uh if, if you need help, you get help and that that structure is in place to support you if you're pushing to production directly. Uh I, I rather like hand it off than have someone monitor. Make sure it's, it's good. But yeah, if, if you feel that you need to do it, I think you should be empowered to do it, but there should be a system, not just like tech technology but like, you know, a policy in place to make sure that you are supported and uh that everyone knows if, if something goes wrong, that there's a way to make sure that it, it, it's taken care of in a, in a timely manner. Ok? I feel like even from like an old school operations perspective, you know, production should really be a, a look but don't touch unless there's a really, really good reason to touch, right? Because the moment you change the smallest bit and in a way, even just logging on to a server changes things, um you know, you've in potentially invalidated what your automation does and then you've also potentially not captured any changes you make to fix it and brought them back to your automation. And so I, I kind of agree with what Wesley said, which is like, you should be empowered to do all the things that can be done in production, like safely in the scope of your like processes, policies and tooling. Um But like we, none of us should be playing around with production for the sake of playing around with production. Um Hopefully, hopefully that's not a thing we do anymore. Cool. I knew this was like a, a spicier question for me. So I was like, I really wanna wanna know y'all's thoughts. It's high on the scope of scale. Yeah. That's very spicy. Very spicy. All right. So let's, let's call it. I think, I, I don't know how we, how we doing. Have we covered everything? Do we need to reach, reach into the people behind the curtain and ask if they wanted to talk about anything else? Do we need to spend time talking about favorite foods or anything to take some time? I do want to say, I do want to say one little thing though to talk about what the future looks like and where we're going, we talked about automation and II, I think automation and abstraction is like, it's, it's clear that's where that's coming. Um What I'd like to see and this is a little off topic I around technology is um the responsibility of one person for each role. Um instead of it being more equitable in terms of, you know, coming through the pandemic, making sure that we have a strong work life balance um that we are people, we are not machines. Um And then uh also with respect to specialization that it's impossible to assume that each person is well rounded as well as specialized and sometimes you're gonna be good at one thing and bad at others. And hopefully we can move towards a skill based economy where the skill set is where we're, we're trying to really like hone in and do and not all this other stuff, not that it's not important, but it's not so so thing where like you are need to be the person that's implementing it, designing it, writing the report, giving the presentation and then like you, that's all considered one part of the job. Maybe if we can just start splitting those things up as well and not just looking at the infrastructure and figure out what goes where I just wanted to say that if my hope is that we will move beyond just wondering about who we're gonna hire. But like what are they gonna do and do? They really need to do that for us to be successful? See Wesley, now you've set the bar and now we need Roselle and Ellen to also tell us their hopes and dreams about the future of cloud engineering if they can choose who's going to speak first. I know we both said we'll go first. Um I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll try. Um let's see. I think what I hope for cloud engineering is um kind of similar to what all of y'all said so far is that we are moving to a space where I don't have to dig in Aws logs and Cooper Netti um especially as like a more entry level or early career developer but there is that push of a button and I still get some insight into why things are happening, but I'm not responsible for all of that. And I, I, when I say I, I mean, to be representing all the other early career developers out there. Yeah, I, I was alluding earlier before we started recording that I could rant about all these things for 10 hours. Um And I'm kind of trying to follow the conversation but yeah, there's, there's so much we could talk about here, like uh as the discussion was going back and forth. I was thinking like, um how, how much, for example, like there's a lot of, there's so much stuff here, like, for example, should every developer know how to install Docker? Like you would think that's simple, it's not um or like just install Kubernetes like QC TL, et cetera. That's work. Um There's, there's so many questions like, um for example, I, I keep talking about development environments and then everyone's like, oh, but I can't run all of that flicks on my laptop or the their environment doesn't have to be your laptop. It can be depending on the scale. It doesn't have to be, sometimes it's both on your laptop and in the cloud and things talk to each other. Um Yeah, so I, I think, I think going forward, we are probably going to see a lot more um very easy to use solutions that right now are very complicated to implement. Uh, like there's a lot of stuff that I see at, at partner companies that I work with that that are like, you just gotta stop and really give it to them that. Well, that was an idea I would not have dared to implement and they did it and it actually works. So maybe you should copy that and make it a push button, product size, easy to use version. Um So I, I mean, I'm, I'm certainly biased because I'm, I'm building this stuff as like as it happens. But yeah, there, there's so many elegant solutions to these problems that I think if in the future, we can make them very easy to use for everyone without previous training without anything just here saying default takes your app is the thing. Um There's so much room for growth there. Nice. Well, look, thank you all so much for joining me. Uh This has been a really fascinating, enjoyable discussion. Uh And thanks everyone for at, at, at home or in your offices or wherever you're watching this from uh for joining us. And uh everyone say goodbye. Are we supposed to do two hand black ways? Bye. Ok, bye. But that's just how you're supposed to end Zoom calls and stuff now. Right. Bye bye. See y'all.

---
