---
preview_image:
hero:
  image: /icons/containers.svg
  title: "Ep 008: What's New In Pulumi?"
title: "Ep 008: What's New In Pulumi?"
meta_desc: |
    This week Luke covers new features and community contributions from the last month. More cloud!
url_slug: ep-008-whats-new-pulumi
featured: false
pre_recorded: true
pulumi_tv: false
unlisted: false
gated: false
type: webinars
external: false
no_getting_started: true
block_external_search_index: false
main:
  title: "Ep 008: What's New In Pulumi?"
  description: |
    This week Luke covers new features and community contributions from the last month. More cloud!
  sortable_date: 2018-08-01T19:20:36Z
  youtube_url: https://www.youtube.com/embed/tlHf64m-icQ
transcript: |
    All right, good morning, everyone. Uh Welcome back to this week's episode of Pulumi TV. My name is Luke Hobin. Uh And today I'm gonna be talking a little bit about what's new in Pulumi. Uh So it's hard to believe we uh we launched Pulumi publicly just about six weeks ago, I think. Um So it's really only been about a month and a half. Uh But we've already seen um a lot of exciting uh new things be delivered um in the time since then. Uh Both things that we've been doing uh ourselves on the Pulumi team, but also some great things from uh folks in the, in the community who have been building interesting uh projects and contributing uh things on top of the core um Pulumi project. And so today I wanted to uh spend a little bit of time uh kind of highlighting a few of those things. Um It usually has a chance to kind of go over some of the, the uh areas that um Pulumi is expanding in and will be expanding in further uh over the coming weeks and months. Uh So, as always, um for those who kind of haven't joined us before here. Um You can get started with Pulumi uh at Pulumi dot IO. Um And so all the information to uh to, to get installed, to get started um to download the tools um and to learn about how you can apply uh Pulumi in the various domains that you might be working in are all here. Um And so, uh I encourage you if you haven't yet uh downloaded and tried out Pulumi. Uh go ahead and do that. Uh And also go ahead and join us um on our Slack Channel. A lot of the community contributions. I've been uh I'm gonna be talking about today are things which uh we worked with folks um in the community Slack channel on um uh on helping them uh to build those out and, and to figure out where we take them and host them and that kind of thing going forward. Um So definitely encourage anyone interested in sort of learning more and getting engaged with Pulumi to jump into our Slack Channel uh and join us there. OK. Uh So let me go back and let's talk about uh a few of the uh things which are, are new. So there's, there's uh five or so things I wanted to, to kind of cover quickly uh in today's live stream. Um So the first one, when we launched, we had support for um Aws Azure, Google Cloud and Kubernetes. Um We had a little bit more uh feature richness in some of those than others. But we had the, the fundamental support for all those platforms. Um We're both working on sort of increasing our level of richness on top of some of those platforms, but also expanding the number of platforms that we can target. And one of those was a contribution from a user named Frasier, uh who wanted to use Pulumi with open stack. And so contributed, he did the support for open stack and we've gone ahead and, and taken the work that he did um expanded on it. Uh And we're gonna be making that available uh publicly very soon, but you can already start using it uh in uh in Frasier's uh fork. And so I'll show you a little bit about how you can use Pulumi with open stack. Uh In just a second. Uh We also uh when we shipped it about six weeks ago, had support for Google cloud. Um But using uh Google cloud functions, uh you know, in the raw way is, is, is fairly difficult, like it is with AWS and like it is with Azure. And so in the same way that for Azure and aws, we really wanted to make it much easier to use uh cloud functions to hook them up to events. Uh We're working on that with Google cloud as well. And thanks to some work from uh Mikhail Skov, uh uh we're, we're integrating that into our core libraries for Google so that it's much easier to work with functions and to really hook them up in a, in a lightweight way. Um The Pulumi can be really great at uh for folks doing sort of core es infrastructure, which has been one of the big areas. We've seen a lot of uh folks applying Pulumi uh the same kind of projects that they have previously been doing in cloud formation or in terraform or tools like that. Uh We uh uh one of the users, James Nugent um contributed some really great packages on top of uh on top of the core AD BS building box that we provide to make it really easy to spin up a VPC or, or do a few other things. And so I want to highlight a few of the, the packages that he built um and go and look at some of the detail about how he did that. Um We also simplified our support for containers even more. So for folks kind of trying to spin up uh you know, lightweight containers. This is another area we saw a lot of folks have come and looked at the tool and gone and wanted to, to use it to just stand up a few containers in a production environment inside Aws or, or Azure. Uh We've simplified that model uh even more and I, I just want to show that uh really briefly and then probably one of the biggest things is just spin the set of content, the number of examples and blog posts and things that we've, we've put out that kind of highlighted the variety of different ways you can apply. Pulumi. Uh So I just want to quickly um show off a few of those uh of those things as well. So with that, let me dive in and start showing uh a little bit of code here. So let me start with uh with the open stack support and I'll come over here into our um Pulumi open stack uh repository. Um And this uh is based on the repository that um uh that Frasier uh did on github. Um We are now in the process of working with him to take it over and, and make it an official um project in the Pulumi uh um organization. And so our, our version of that will be public uh um shortly, probably later this week. Um But let me give you a little preview of kind of what you can do uh with, with this. So this is an example of using uh the Pulumi open stack uh library and like with all of our core cloud providers, uh This is a way of projecting the all the capabilities of that provider into the programming model. So you can now code against them using a general purpose programming language. And so in this case, we're using uh typescript but um just like with all our other providers. You can work with, uh, this open stack provider using Python or Go or javascript or typescript or any of the languages that we'll support, uh, in the future. So, one of the nice things, of course, with any of these, uh, libraries is that we can get sort of, uh, all the tool and benefits we expect. Um, so we can get completion lists and we can see that, hey, here, I can do you know uh open stack block storage and I can see that I have a variety of different volume kinds that are available within the uh open stack. API I can do you know uh over dot database and create a database and a user and a configuration and all these things that I might expect again uh from uh any open stack environment. And so in this particular case, I am just doing up an instance uh running a bunch of 16 04. And then I'm gonna export the IP address once this thing and once this is stood up, it will have a public IP address and uh we'll, we'll stand it up and so I can come over here into my console and do what I normally do with the Pulumi program. I can look at what stacks I have available for this. Uh And we see I just have one stack um I last updated nine minutes ago, but it has zero resources because I cleaned it up before uh doing a quick demo here. And so I can come over here and say Pulumi update when you Pulumi updates. Um, since there's no resources and since my program expects there to be this one instance, uh oh, let me just uh rec compile this. So we'll see that when we do the Pulumi update, as we expect from Pulumi, we get this preview telling us what changes we're going to make and we see effectively, we're just gonna create that one instance. And so I can go ahead and say yes, I can go ahead and look at the details if I want and see all the details of what uh what we're gonna create there. Go ahead and say yes and we'll go and provision uh this instance in open stack. So we're going to talk for a second, a bit more about uh open stack. So open stack um um open stack is a uh a cloud platform uh API that is available for many different vendors. Um And so, uh you know, you can use the same API for um and the same provider from within Pulumi to target a variety of different uh vendors and, and uh host per platform providers who are compatible with that API And so, you know, for example, um uh if you, if you want to target rack space, if you want to target OVH, there's a whole bunch of different uh uh folks who offer compatible uh API S with this. And so this having spoke for open stack means there's a wide variety of different uh platforms that you can now target uh from uh Pulumi as well. And so if you're not targeting A to BS, if you're using one of these other providers is a cloud back end that does support the opens stack. API you're now able to bring all of the tools from Pulumi to that cloud environment as well. And so this is a really nice thing to have available. It's also available from a number of on premise providers. Uh And so, um you know, if you have an on premise data center with the support, um you can access that using Pulumi. So, uh so yeah, so we we now have support for uh for this and let me come over and see if this is done. So, yeah, so we created that instance um has this IP address um and just like normal, we can kind of come over here and uh and see that stack in uh the Pulumi console. So we can see the information about where it was deployed. You know, we can see its I PV four and I PV six address, the image ID that it got installed the network that uh was used uh to run this. Um And then we can also see the resources. So in this case, it's just this one resource um inside this uh deployed program. Uh but we can get all of the sort of same richness of managing these uh things for open stack as well. Now, in this particular case, I'm deploying to OVH and so we can come in here and see in my uh OVH uh console and I've got this instance running here and actually let me refresh because I might have a, a different one right now. OK. So we've got this test instance running. Uh And uh you can see a few things. So one in the OVH console, for example, if you want to use the open stack support, um I can come over here and I can download the open stack configuration files and these can be used really easily to set up your configuration, your environment variable so that you can do uh Pulumi deployment. So nothing's really needed other than just downloading one of these uh configuration files and sourcing it into your environment. Uh But now I can use that to spin up things like uh like this uh VM here. Um And you see that just in about, you know, 45 seconds, I spun up a VM inside uh OVH. Um Of course, if I try to uh ssh into this. Uh Yeah, well, that's because I did connect to this earlier. Um uh But yeah, this is not actually serve anything because this is not um uh exposed on a public um uh on a public endpoint and so let me just come in here and, and put back in some code I wrote earlier, uh that highlights how we can do this. So let me add two things in here. Um For this particular instance, I'm going to as well as the instance down here, I'm gonna add a key pair. So an open stack compute key pair. Uh And I'm gonna add a security group with two rules associated with it. Uh for each of the two ports 22 and 80. Uh So for each of those, I'm going to allow ingress on TCP over IPV four to that security group from that port. So for each of those port 22 and 80 so you see a few nice things from Pulumi here. So one is, you know, of course, we can do things like loops and that kind of thing, we can factor this out in various ways. We also see if we can just use node functions to read a file in if we want to. So in this case, I've got this file that has my public key. And so I want to use that as the public key uh for the SSH key pair, I could provide this through config or a bunch of other sort of more robust mechanisms. But especially as I'm just bringing something up, it's very useful to be able to read this in and test it out quickly and iterative. And so let me just come over here and do a compile that new code uh with those updates from putting the update. Ok. Let me see as normal from Pulumi, you know, we kind of see the kind of updates we expect so that security group, the key pair and the two security group roles we wanted to create are all gonna get created and then the instance is gonna get replaced. Um And that's gonna get replaced because uh we added a key pair which requires replacement of the instance. And so if I go ahead and say yes, we'll go ahead and make those changes uh in the open stack provider. Yeah, so we added all of those resources and now we're just gonna replace uh that instance and we see even the details of what's going to change uh the key pair and the security groups are added. And as a result of that, the name is gonna have to change. Um So we're now replacing this instance. Uh In fact, if we come over here and we may be able to even see um Pulumi actually does uh by default when it replaces things it creates before it deletes. And so that means that we'll make sure that the new one is up and running correctly before we tear down the old one. This helps to prevent downtime. And so in this case, we see that the old one is, is running just fine and the new one is still in creation. Um And so this will then become OK? And now we should start seeing this one delete. Um If I refresh again, it should be in deleting mode. I don't know if ovh updates how, how quickly it updates the status of these things. Uh But we should see it disappear in just a second. OK. So it says it replaced. Um So we go, now we're back down to one instance, writing this thing. And if I then go and take, you know, this sort of thing and say s you know, two at we should be able to connect to this instance that we're running. Oh, I got the wrong IP address, didn't I? In fact, I can do SSH 212 at let me stack, output instance IP let me spell it at that fingerprint and now I should be inside my UTU instance. So there we go. So to be able to then go and expose the right port so that I have access to my instance, um exit. And, and now I've showed off kind of using an open stack instance. Of course, everything else within open stack that you saw there is also available there. So if you want to access database services or, or whatever, um we, we have the access to all of those. Um So for anyone using open stack against the variety of different open stack providers, um this is a really handy thing. To get access to uh to the value of Pulumi but against those environments as well. So let me move on and talk about the next thing, Google cloud functions. So you know, functions is a key thing. You know, serverless applications are one of the environments where we've seen in Pulumi really being valuable. Because to build up serverless applications, you tend to need to compose together lots of little pieces and that having those little pieces and having them be able to uh sort of version independently and be deployed very simply is one of the things we love about server. But because there's so many little pieces, it makes the development process actually where a lot of the challenges become. And that's where Pulumi can help is to make it really easy to express and version and manage all these different functions. Um And so we wanted to bring all of that kind of benefit of Pulumi over to the Google cloud space. And so let me switch over into our examples repo uh and show uh an example of using Google cloud functions. So here we have an example um that just uses uh this HTP function uh helper that we created. And so HT B function is a new uh abstraction that you can use. Instead of using the raw capabilities provided by Google, you can just use H TB function and I'll show you in a second what's underneath that, but that basically stitches together a few of the different building blocks you need to use to expose a function uh um as an HTP endpoint uh using Google Cloud functions. And so this case, uh you see, I've been doing it in a very simple way, I'm just giving it a name and then I'm giving it a call back. Uh And this callback is the actual code that's gonna run at run time. So when this HTD function gets hit, uh it's going to run this code and respond to the um the HP request. One of the really nice thing with Google cloud functions is that um the, the API it exposes very strongly typed in a sense. Um So it's actually you get a fully populated express Js um request and response object. Um And so those are, those are very rich things to work with. Whereas, and some of the other platforms, you just get a very custom, you know, request object that isn't, you know, isn't HDP specific in some sense and you kind of have to do a lot of the work to do the parsing of the, of the data out of that. Here, you get a real request object, you can use real no Js express libraries to, to work with that thing. Um And so here, uh for example, you know, because we know that this request is a um express dot request. If I, you know, say dot BDY, I get an error there. And I'm actually getting error checking both on the inside of my function and of course on the outside. So if I mistype one of these things, and so we get all those benefits of kind of the strong typing that, that um that Pulumi can provide and we get to bring those into the run time code you're authoring as well. In this case, uh we're just gonna call this uh send function which sends back our, our response and we're just going to respond with a string and then we're gonna publish the URL. And so if I come over here, I can do the same thing I did before type Pulumi stack. LS, we see that we have this one function here. And if I just do Pulumi update, uh we should be able to deploy this function. Uh And I'm getting some warnings just because I have a build of this locally. Um uh But we see that when I, when I want to go and deploy this, it's suggesting it's gonna um upload. Uh It's gonna create three objects in uh in Google cloud platform uh as part of building up this H DB function. So it's gonna build that, that Google cloud, Google cloud functions function object. And it's also going to create a bucket and a bucket object to store the source code uh for that uh object. So if I go ahead and say yes, uh I can go ahead and create that very quick to create these objects. And then the function takes maybe I think it takes 10, 20 seconds to create. Um but overall very quick and while I was waiting, well, let me just come over actually into the Google Cloud functions console. And, and if I refresh this, um you see here, I'm logged in into the Google cloud platform uh console. And you can see now this function that I'm creating is actually got the spinner here. It's actually in the process of being deployed. Um And so I can come over to this and watch it. We should see it in just a second. Oh, there we go. It has a green check. So it finished deploying. Um So here you can see all the details about that Google cloud function. I say it took about 30 seconds to deploy that um just like before we can get access to all the details about this um over in the Pulumi console, including the list of resources and even the sort of resource view which shows that we have that component that then has those three Children as part of it. Uh But back over here, you know, I get this URL and if I go to that URL, uh I actually get that string uh that I printed out. Um And just like with everything else in, in Pulumi, if I make some change to this and sort of say, hey, this is gonna be in a Pulumi TV, uh, pile that and then update, we'll see here that Pulumi knows to make just the minimal changes it needs to or did I not save that? I don't know why we're not actually seeing an update there, but if I make some changes here, um, we would expect it to only show the, the changes that have actually need to be made, um, as part of this particular update. Um So let me move on and, and show actually what's underneath the hood of this because I think that shows kind of what um a lot of the work that the, the folks who are contributing to this, the work that M is doing on bringing this into our core library right now. Um What that work kind of looks like in some of the building blocks that Pulumi offers to build this sort of thing if you want to go and um extend this into your own platform uh as well. Um And so, one of the things you'll notice with the AC P function is it's a component uh resource. And so Pulumi has a notion of components uh which is a way of describing these sort of custom combinations of resources. And these will show up as sort of nodes in the tree or in that resource view that we saw here, they'll show as sort of uh nodes with Children underneath them there. And so an easy way of sort of packaging up a set of functionality into one reusable component. Um And these are, are very handy because they, they can, you can provide any API you want to users um that wraps a whole bunch of interesting cloud uh behavior behind it. And so in this case, uh this HB function is one of these and it just exposes off those, those constituent parts, the bucket, the bucket object and the function uh inside it does, does a few interesting things. Uh So first, um we have this uh underlying capability in Pulumi runtime to serialize a function. And this is how we turn that hand load that the user wrote into a piece of code that can then be um be stored inside a Google Cloud function. And this is actually nontrivial. Um you know, the folks think about just oh I'm just gonna two string that function in javascript or something like that. Um We go quite a bit deeper here and we actually capture all of the um captured uh values. So if I had done something like that stir equals, you know, uh you know, I could write this right now. I now I have this free variable here that is captured from outside. Um But I can use that. And in fact, this is very useful when I create other resources inside my function, I want to reference them from within my function. And so maybe I create a database uh up here and I want to just pass a handle to that thing in and I don't want to have to swizzle it to an environment variable and deserializing that out of the environment variables. I just want a handle to that thing directly. And so we can do that sort of thing. Uh With this function capability, we then use that to sort of build up the function text and the entry point information um and use those to create uh a bucket and a bucket object to store them. An interesting thing is because this is going to actually deploy every time we do an update, we're just going to see the deltas um Only because the function texts change are we going to see that this bucket object needs to update? But the bucket itself will never need to change because there's no inputs to it which change over time. And so for as long as this component exists, we'll just have one bucket that's managing the, the, the objects that this got stored in. And then finally create this, this underlying function pointing out that bucket and bucket object and using the entry point that we wanted to specify. Um in this case so far, we're, we're supporting just HDP. Um And so we're trigging that HCP as the next step, we're planning on supporting the sort of full range of other event sources that Google cloud platform provides. And so you see it's very simple to write this kind of component that wraps up this behavior. But it's actually very important to be able to build these sort of things. Because manually writing all of this every time you want to upload a function is quite cumbersome. And there's a lot of little, little details like the serialized function, the way that these bucket objects get constructed that are very, you have to get just right to make sure that the behavior of the updates is correct. And so turning these kind of things into a component, making them easily available um is, is a really nice thing and really happy that Mchale is working on uh turning this into a component that anyone can use. OK. Uh So that was uh Google cloud functions um uh which was uh which is really nice. The next one is sort of raw infrastructure and some of the things being built on top of that. Um So uh database infrastructure is sort of one of the places that a lot of folks are using Pulumi. Uh And we um when we launched, we actually had a project uh a package called um at Pulumi slash aws dash info uh which was a set of building blocks for, for infrastructure. And they were fairly basic um useful but but fairly basic uh um components for standing up a simple A DS network and standing up a simple uh ECs cluster. Uh Since then, uh one of uh one of the, the users of Pulumi um over the last few weeks um has added a few of his own packages that do some similar things, but in a much, much richer way. Um And so these are really handy things to kind of build on top of. I wanna highlight one of them. Here is this Pulumi Aws VPC. Uh And this is a library for creating a very customizable A W VPC but using a high level description of that B PC. Um And so, in this case, you know, uh you'll see here, I can do VPC dot create and I can pass a whole bunch of different parameters and James is documented here. What all those parameters are. Um You know, I can specify my, that my cyber space uh for that, I want to allocate to this VPC. I can decide how many A Z si want, whether I want a fixed number or I want one per sorry, how many uh uh submits I want, whether I want one per A Z or uh that's available in the region or I want to specify ahead of time, uh you know, a specific number. Um And then things like tagging all resources automatically um automatically allocating a private hosted zone within the um within the VPC uh and potentially creating dynamo uh DB end points um so that I can get um VPC connections to dynamo and S3, for example. Um So lots of lots of rich capabilities to just put a single, yes, no flag turn on a bunch of rich capabilities which are actually somewhat difficult to do uh manually. And then ultimately, after you create that you get access to the subnets, the and the hosted zones and what have you. And this is really interesting because that one little component, you know, just with those few lines of code to create, it creates a whole bunch of resources, right? So VPC ends up having lots of different pieces associated with it. For every A Z I have to have a public and private subnet, I have to have these VPC end points. I'm going to have to have security groups and route tables associated with those things. I need an internet gateway so that I can access the internet and manually hooking all these up is quite a bit of effort. And so uh what James's library here does is does all the heavy lifting for that and lets you just work at the much higher level of attraction of I want this uh VPC with these particular characteristics. And so especially by publishing, this is an open source component. This is something that he and others can then contribute to, to make richer if in places where people want additional accessibility. Um but it really should be no need to go and work for most folks at the level of these underlying resources. And so really excited to have this library available. And James has several other libraries that he has made and is making available. Um And so definitely encourage folks to check those out. Um really good examples of a infrastructure being built with Pulumi. Uh So for the sake of time, I'm gonna skip over even simpler containers and I'm just gonna jump straight to uh new examples um because I want to highlight a few of the things that we've added um uh along the way and uh there's sort of two things there that I wanna talk about. So one actually uh that I think is really exciting and I might even next week um spend some time going through these in more detail. But for those of you who didn't uh check it out last week, um uh Joe did a blog post on sort of 12 Pulumi pearls. Um So these were just a bunch of little snippets of code that kind of gives you a sense of how you can use Pulumi in a bunch of different interesting uh areas. And so I think for folks kind of thinking about, you know, excited about the idea Pulumi to try to figure out kind of in which ways to apply it in which different domains and, and get some ideas for that. These are really good examples of a bunch of different quick look, looks at what Pulumi can look like. So in a bunch of different things from serverless tasks to container based tasks to raw infrastructure and then even just some general tips and tricks for interesting things you can do that are cross cutting and so lots of fun things to look at in here. Many of these are available inside our examples as well. Um But you know, really focusing on some of the, the neat things uh about those um in this blog book. So definitely suggest checking that out. Um But then with that, let me jump over to uh look at some of the other new examples. Um So, uh so I did talk about this GCP TS functions. That's one that's new in the last few weeks. Um uh We did have this very simple example of using containers. I think this is super important. And, and since I mentioned that we have this uh even simpler containers, I should maybe spend a second on this. So the containers, you know, we have a very simple way to stand up um uh a containerized service. So new cloud dot service uh point at some folder with a Docker file, uh tell it what memory and what ports you want to expose and how many replicas. And now you've got that stood up on AWS. And in this case, uh by default, we're going to stand it up in Fargate. Uh And so this is like probably about as simple of a way as you can imagine to get a uh doer application running in uh fargate, one of the nice things that we did recently since it's very common, uh you know, it's obviously important to be able to support uh services with multiple containers running inside them. Uh But it's also very common to just want to run a single uh container. And one of the nice things because we have a flexible API here. Uh It means we can use all the techniques of API design to kind of uh overload things and let you uh customize the way you use this. And so we now support an even simpler model where if I have just a single container, I can just in line that. So I can say, hey, I want to run a service that is built from this folder with this memory with these ports and the two replicates. Um So about the least possible text you could write to express this application, do a Pulumi update a couple of minutes later, you're gonna have a low balanced uh instance of engine running uh in, in Aws. And so I think that's, that's very exciting um in terms of using containers, um we also added a bunch of new uh um Azure examples. So uh you know, this is using Azure app service. So this, you know, when we talk to Azure customers, I'm always amazed at how many Azure customers using app service, especially since there, they aren't a moral equivalence of app service in a lot of the other cloud platforms. Um And so this was a good example to kind of show off all the various pieces of that. And it uses a lot of different things from Azure, right? It uses um storage accounts and storage containers. It uses um app insights to, to create, you know, to get um visibility into what's going on. Uh It, it uses a SQL server uh as the back end database. And so we instantiate one of those and create that with the user name and password that the user provides. And then ultimately create, we create that app service and parameterize it with some of that information. And there's a lots of stuff going on here. But again, one of the key things with Pulumi is we can then go and wrap this all up, make it into a common component, make it really easy to hook all these things um together. But um for those folks using Azure and interested in the app service, this is an interesting example to look at. We've also done a bit of work on Python. And so we um I added a couple more examples of using Python. So one, for example is uh here's an example of using Python uh with a uh with step functions. And so, in this case, we're using Python, but we're actually creating a lambda function from the code in this step hello folder. Um So just this little hello dot pi file uh and then we're hooking it up into a state machine uh resource. So this will, in this case, we're just running one step. But um but we, we can run an arbitrary set of interesting steps that different gating between them uh using AWS S step functions. And so we've done a lot of work to sort of make uh make this kind of thing work um Support assets in Python. Um And, and other features to, to make the Python experience even better for those folks interested in using uh P. Um So there's a lot more examples and a lot more uh coming. Uh we have a EKS example that um uh we're working on right now that um is really exciting one click uh deployment of E CE KS, which is actually a somewhat complicated service to get set up manually using the, the A S do today. Um And a bunch of other things uh that, that um that are new here um that we highlight more in the coming weeks. Um OK. Yeah. So that's uh actually for, and I'll, I'll have that really quickly is um you know, we finally added support for uh cues as an event source for lambda. Um And so we added this uh very simple example of using a uh A Q uh in this case, SQSQ as an event source for uh for subscribing to and then you can run whatever code you want inside that. And this is really nice. You can build a lot more interesting architectures in, in terms of your serverless apps now that you have the access to cues as well as to uh topics and timers and these sorts of resources. Um And this is something we added in our AWS serverless library, which is where we have all the sort of core service building blocks. Um And as well as adding this here, we've actually also um started uh the work on the Azure service library. Um And so for folks trying to do similar things to this, but in Azure, um that's work that um that we've started and, and is, is continuing to make progress on. Um So lots of fun stuff there. Um I'll uh I'll probably leave it at that in terms of talking about examples. Um But uh we'll come back probably next week and spend some more time looking at some of these, uh some of these really interesting programming pers uh that are available in Joe's blog post. Uh So with that, let me uh just kind of wrap up for today. Uh You know, as I said before, um if folks haven't yet gotten started with Pulumi, I definitely encourage you to go to Pulumi dot IO uh install, uh get started, take a tour, look at the examples. Um definitely come and join the Slack channel, lots of great conversations uh going on there. Lots of folks um uh helping to kind of answer questions and to, to, to get f give folks pointers on, on where to go, to look for more information uh on getting started. I'm very happy that folks uh are liking the project on github. Uh We just passed 1000 stars a few days ago. Uh So thanks to everyone who's, who's following us on github and, and contributing to the project there. Um And uh if anyone is interested in uh following up on topics for future, uh um uh live streams, feel free to reach out to me on Twitter uh or um in the community Slack Channel. Um Thanks uh and we'll see you again next week. Bye for.

---
